Applying for Readmission (Undergraduate Only)
Ready to restart your education and complete your undergraduate degree at NCCU?

To do so, simply apply for undergraduate readmission using the process outlined below:

Complete an online Readmission Application Form. Create a Readmission application portal account and proceed to apply.
Submit a non-refundable application fee of $50 along with your readmission application.
Submit an official transcript from each institution you have attended since leaving NCCU.
To learn more about residency for tuition purposes, and to request a residency determination as in-state, visit the Residency Determination Service (RDS) website at www.NCresidency.org or call 844-319-3640.
Please note:

In-state residency classifications have expiration dates. If you completed RDS more than a year ago, transferred from a different school or had a gap in enrollment, you may need to return to RDS.

Students are responsible for reporting their Residency Certification Numbers (RCN) to campus.  Failure to report this information may result in you paying out-of-state tuition, by default.  Failure to comply with university deadlines may result in paying out-of-state tuition.  There are no appeals for missed deadlines. 

Readmission to the university is not guaranteed and is subject to prior academic history and campus safety requirements as noted on the admissions application. If you are unable to enroll for the term for which you have been admitted, you must apply again to a different term.

Graduate Readmission
If you are applying for graduate readmission, please use the following link: https://gradapply.nccu.edu/.

Readmission Deadlines
Miranda Clinton
The deadlines for submitting a Readmission application to return in the following semesters are:

Spring II (Flight Path majors only): March 2, 2026
Summer I 2026: May 12, 2026
Summer II 2026: June 18, 2026
Fall 2026: August 10, 2026
International Readmission
Once you have received your official acceptance email for readmission, you must contact the International Students Undergraduate Admissions to request and/or upload your I-20 or DS-2019 form.
Who Has to Reapply?
Readmission applies to students who have previously been admitted, registered, and attended a degree-seeking program at North Carolina Central University. Students must apply for readmission if they skip a term or stop after completing a single semester or more. Reapply using the Undergraduate Readmission Application (available online only). The application fee for readmission is $50.00. Payment can be submitted at the completion of the application or the Bursar Office located in the James E. Sheppard Administration Building. The operating hours are Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 4 p.m.

Please note: the Undergraduate Readmission Application must be submitted with payment for the individual to be considered for readmission.

Readmission to the university is not guaranteed and is subject to prior academic history and campus safety requirements, as noted on the admissions application. If you are unable to enroll for the term for which you have been admitted, you must apply again to a different term.

Appealing Your Readmission Decision
Readmission applicants could receive a notification from the Office of Admissions stating that they need to provide more information, including completing an Academic Appeal Application. A link to the Appeal Application is located in the student’s application portal.

Prior to submitting a readmission academic appeal, students should ensure they have an understanding of the Readmission Academic Appeal Process and the readmission deadlines.

View Academic Appeal Process Steps

Former NCCU students who are unable to access their myEOL portal or identify their student ID or password should contact ITS at 919-530-7676 or submit a General ITS Service Request ticket via their website.

View Academic Appeal Application Key Dates

The Readmission Academic Appeals request should be completed by the student. It is then forwarded to the Academic Appeals Review Committee (AARC). Please allow 3–4 weeks from the time of submitting an appeal to receive a decision.

Students will be notified via email about their Readmission Academic Appeal decision. If denied, students can apply for readmission for a future term for consideration.

The identified Academic Appeals Review chairs are listed below:

University College	Mr. Jereme Perry
College of Health and Sciences	Dr. Fredrick Johnson
College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities	Ms. Rosa Anderson
Department of Nursing	Mrs. Dominique Williams
School of Business	Ms. Ivy Baker 
School of Education	Ms. Kia Eason
 

Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Financial Aid Appeal Process
Students who do not meet the University’s SAP requirements may lose their eligibility to receive federal, state and institutional financial aid.

If you have lost your financial aid eligibility, you will be required to submit a Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) appeal.

A SAP appeal is independent from any review of your academic record conducted by various academic departments.

For more information about the Satisfactory Academic Appeal Progress Form, please visit https://www.nccu.edu/ssa/satisfactory-academic-progress.

Readmission FAQs


1. How do I find the status of my readmission application?
North Carolina Central University has an online system to check your application status.

Check Your Status (Readmission)

You can monitor and check the status of your application by logging into your Welcome Back Eagle portal anytime, day or night.

2. How much is the readmission application fee?
The application fee is $50 USD (non-refundable). When you complete your application online, you can submit your payment electronically with a debit or credit card. Please contact the Bursar's office for cash, check, or money orders (919-530-7237).

3. When will I receive a decision? How will I be notified?
Readmission applicants should receive a decision within seven to ten business days of submitting a complete application. You will be notified via the Welcome Back Eagle portal when your decision is ready.


4. May I meet with someone in person to discuss my situation?
You can meet with an academic advisor in your college to discuss your readiness to return to North Carolina Central University for the following semester, as well as course selection, registration, and major options. Send questions about your decision, deadlines, or the application to the Office of Readmission via email at Readmissions@nccu.edu.

5. I have been approved for readmission. What happens next?
Meet with an academic advisor in your major to have the mandatory advising block removed, discuss courses, and review your remaining degree requirements.

6. May I register for the Fall/Spring/Summer semester before I receive my readmission decision?
You are not eligible to register until you are officially readmitted to North Carolina Central University. If you are readmitted, you may also have to resolve registration holds before registering.

7. I have an unpaid balance on my student account. Am I eligible to apply for re-enrollment before it is resolved?
Please apply by the appropriate deadline even if you have a financial block. However, we are unable to finish processing your application until we receive notification that your payment has been received.

8. When can I apply for readmission after academic suspension?
Students who left the university under academic suspension may apply for readmission for the term following their suspension, but they may not qualify for academic forgiveness.


9. I am an international student. Are there additional documents I must submit in order to re-enroll?
Once you have received your official acceptance email for readmission, you must contact the International Students Undergraduate Admissions to request and/or upload your I-20 or DS-2019 form.

10. How do I mail materials requested (e.g., official transcripts) to NCCU’s Office of Readmissions?
You can mail any official documents to us at the following address:

Office of Undergraduate Admissions
P.O. Box 19717
Durham, NC 27707
SACSCOC Statement

North Carolina Central University is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award baccalaureate, masters, educational specialist, and doctoral degrees. North Carolina Central University also may offer credentials such as certificates and diplomas at approved degree levels. Questions about the accreditation of North Carolina Central University may be directed in writing to the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, GA 30033-4097, by calling 404-679-4500, or by using information available on SACSCOC’s website (www.sacscoc.org).