Libraries
The five libraries at North Carolina Central University are fully dedicated to promoting student success by providing a large range of scholarly resources and supporting services that are aligned with the University’s educational, research, and public service objectives. 
Overview of Our Libraries
The NCCU libraries serve students, faculty, staff, and the scholarly community-at-large. We have five libraries: the James E. Shepard Memorial Library, the Music Library, the Curriculum Materials Center (CMC), the School of Library and Information Sciences (SLIS) Library, and the School of Law Library.

Banner
Shepard LibraryLibGuidesA-Z Databases
A-Z Databases
Find the best library databases for your research.
Database Subject Filter
All Subjects
Database Types Filter
All Database Types
Database Vendors Filter
All Vendors / Providers
DATABASES
Search for Databases
493 Databases found
A
ABC-CLIO E-Book Collection This link opens in a new window
It is a collection of complete all searchable by keyword, subject, author, title, or any Boolean search method. It includes the series Daily Life Through History, Critical Companions to Popular Contemporary Authors, Historic Events of the 20th Century, Literature in Context.
ABI/INFORM Collection This link opens in a new window Featured
Business research from journals, trade publications, market research reports, dissertations, and working papers.
ABYZ Web Links This link opens in a new window
It is a directory of links to online news sources from around the world. It is organized on a geographical basis. It contains links to newspapers and other sites with news content such as broadcast stations, internet services, magazines, and press agencies.
Academic Search Complete This link opens in a new window Featured
Featuring thousands of full-text journals, this scholarly collection offers unmatched coverage of information spanning a broad range of important areas of academic study including: anthropology, astronomy, biology, chemistry, civil engineering, engineering, ethnic & multicultural studies, geology, law, materials science, mathematics, music, pharmaceutical sciences, physics, psychology, religion & theology, veterinary science, women's studies, zoology, and many other fields.
Access World News This link opens in a new window
Find global information on topics related to business and economics, careers, criminal justice, education, environmental studies, health, international studies, performing and fine arts, political science, science, social issues, sports, STEM, technology and more from a variety of news media featuring newspapers, videos and web-only content including the News and Observer, Herald-Sun, USA Today, international sources and more.
ACCESSNC This link opens in a new window
Statistical, analytical and mapping tool designed to aid economic and community development decision making.
Advanced Technologies and Aerospace Database This link opens in a new window
Full-text titles from around the world, including scholarly journals, trade and industry journals, magazines, technical reports, conference proceedings, and government publications.
African American Historical Serials Collection This link opens in a new window
The African American Historical Serials Collection features 173 periodicals spanning from 1816 through 1922. The periodicals in this collection include newspapers and magazines, in addition to reports and annuals from various African American organizations, including churches and educational and service institutions.
African American Music Reference This link opens in a new window
African American Music Reference contains 50,000 pages that offers the first comprehensive coverage of blues, jazz, spirituals, civil rights songs, slave songs, minstrelsy, rhythm and blues, gospel, and other forms of black American musical expression. This release includes 3,323 essays and images from 84 sources, over 23,603 pages.
African-American Poetry This link opens in a new window
Nearly 3,000 poems written by African-American poets in the late eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. Indexed from 1750 to 1900.
Agricultural and Environmental Science Collection This link opens in a new window
Articles plus searchable charts, figures, graphs, maps, photographs and tables representing all major environment topics.
America - History and Life This link opens in a new window
It is the definitive index of literature covering the history and culture of the United States and Canada, from prehistory to the present. With indexing for 1,700 journals from 1964 to present, this database is without question the most important bibliographic reference tool for students and scholars of U.S. and Canadian history. It also includes citations and links to book and media reviews. Strong English-language journal coverage is balanced by an international perspective on topics and events, including abstracts in English of articles published in more than 40 languages.
America's News Magazines This link opens in a new window
It is a collection of 26 full-text magazines, covering general news, business, entertainment, lifestyle, and sports.
American Antiquarian Society (AAS) Historical Periodicals Collection - Series 1 - 5 This link opens in a new window
The entire American Antiquarian Society (AAS) Historical Periodicals Collection features over 6500 titles from the seventeenth through the late nineteenth century. The subject matter covered in all available series are broad in scope and covers all aspects of American society during this time period.
American Antiquarian Society (AAS) Historical Periodicals Collection - Series 1 This link opens in a new window
The AAS Historical Periodicals Collection: 1691-1820 presents over 500 titles from 1691 through 1820. Representing over two centuries of print culture from early colonial imports to titles published on American soil during the Revolution and early republic, Series 1 is first of the five series created from periodical holdings from one of the premier repositories in the United States, the American Antiquarian Society.
American Antiquarian Society (AAS) Historical Periodicals Collection - Series 2 This link opens in a new window
The American Antiquarian Society (AAS) Historical Periodicals Collection Series 2 presents over 1000 titles dating from 1821 through 1837. The series two is second of the five series created from serials holdings belonging to one of the premier repositories in the United States, the American Antiquarian Society and featuring about 6500 titles from the seventeenth through the late nineteenth century. The subject matter covered in Series 2 represents the Jacksonian Democracy era in history and is broad in scope and includes agriculture, entertainment, history, literary criticism, and politics.
American Antiquarian Society (AAS) Historical Periodicals Collection - Series 3 This link opens in a new window
The American Antiquarian Society (AAS) Historical Periodicals Collection: Series 3 presents over 1,800 titles dating from 1838 through 1852. Series 3 is the third of five series created from serials holdings of one of the premier repositories in the United States, the American Antiquarian Society. The themes presented in Series 3 reveal a rapidly growing young nation, where industrialization, the railroads, regional political differences, and life on the western frontier were daily realities. Subjects covered in the collection reach into every facet of American life, including science, literature, medicine, agriculture, women's fashion, family life, and religion.
American Antiquarian Society (AAS) Historical Periodicals Collection - Series 4 This link opens in a new window
The American Antiquarian Society (AAS) Historical Periodicals Collection - Series 4 presents over 1,100 titles dating from 1853 through 1865. Series 4 is the fourth of five series created from serials holdings of one of the premier repositories in the United States, the American Antiquarian Society. While the Civil War is a focal point of the collection, we also find a diverse record of the continuance of daily life for many Americans - both leading up to and during the war. News from the battlefront can be found, in addition to the usual breadth of subject matter found in previous collections that include science, literature, medicine, agriculture, women's fashion, family life, and religion.
American Antiquarian Society (AAS) Historical Periodicals Collection - Series 5 This link opens in a new window
The American Antiquarian Society (AAS) Historical Periodicals Collection: Series 5 presents over 2,500 titles dating from 1866 through 1877. Series 5 is the fifth of five series created from serials holdings of one of the premier repositories in the United States, the American Antiquarian Society. The themes presented in Series 5 reflect a nation that persevered through a most difficult set of circumstances: a bloody civil war that claimed hundreds of thousands of lives; the incorporation of the recently-freed African Americans into American life; a population that rapidly expanded into the Western territories. Broad subject areas covered in the collection reach into every facet of American life, including science, literature, medicine, agriculture, women's fashion, family life, and religion.
American Chemical Society Publications This link opens in a new window
Alternate Name(s) ACS Publications
American Chemical Society Publications is dedicated to helping researchers advance scientific excellence to solve global challenges through journals and scientific programs. It has most trusted and most cited publications.
American Institute of Physics This link opens in a new window
It provides the global physical sciences community with a comprehensive collection of highly cited peer reviewed scientific information.
American Music This link opens in a new window
American Music is a history database that allows people to hear and feel the music from America's past. The database includes songs by and about American Indians, miners, immigrants, slaves, children, pioneers and cowboys. Included in the database are the songs of Civil Rights, political campaigns, Prohibition, the Revolutionary War, the Civil War, anti-war protests and more.
American Physical Society Journals This link opens in a new window
Alternate Name(s) APS Journals
American Physical Society publications serve the international physics community with peer-reviewed research journals, news and commentary about the latest research published in the Physical Review journals.
American Poetry This link opens in a new window
Over 40,000 poems by more than 200 American poets from the Colonial Period to the early twentieth century. Indexed from 1600 to 1900.
APA PsycArticles This link opens in a new window Featured
This database is from the American Psychological Association. It is a definitive source of full text, peer-reviewed scholarly and scientific articles in psychology. It contains articles from journals published by the American Psychological Association, its imprint the Educational Publishing Foundation, and from allied organizations. It includes all journal articles, book reviews, letters to the editor, and errata from each journal. Coverage spans 1894 to the present.
APA PsycTests This link opens in a new window New Featured
APA PsycTests®, produced by the American Psychological Association (APA), serves as a repository for a growing selection of psychological tests and measures, including thousands of actual test instruments and test items that are available for immediate download and use in research and teaching. International in scope, APA PsycTests® also provides access to an increasing number of tests that are available in languages other than English. APA PsycTests® is an authoritative source of structured information about tests of relevance to psychologists and professionals in related fields such as psychiatry, management, business, education, social science, neuroscience, law, medicine, and social work. While focused on contemporary instances of test use, coverage spans more than a century.
Applied Digital Skills This link opens in a new window
Teach and learn practical digital skills needed for the jobs of today and tomorrow with our video lessons.
ArchiveGrid This link opens in a new window
Primary source information, including birth and death records, ship logs, and cemetery records.
Art and Architecture Complete This link opens in a new window
It provides full-text coverage of 380 periodicals and more than 220 books. In addition, this database offers cover-to-cover indexing and abstracts for more than 780 academic journals, magazines and trade publications, as well as for over 230 books. Art and Architecture Complete also provides selective coverage for 70 additional publications and an Image Collection of over 63,000 images provided by Picture Desk and others.
ArtNC This link opens in a new window
An educational resource from the North Carolina Museum of Art. Explore works of art that are teachable across disciplines and grade levels. Includes lesson plans, concept maps and portfolios.
Arts and Humanities Citation Index This link opens in a new window
This index is a multidisciplinary database covering the journal literature of the arts and humanities. It indexes 1,144 of the world's leading arts and humanities journals, as well as covering individually selected, relevant items from over 6,800 major science and social science journals. Provides access to current information and retrospective data from 1975 forward.
Arts and Humanities Database This link opens in a new window
This database features hundreds of titles covering Art, Architecture, Design, History, Philosophy, Music, Literature, Theater and Cultural Studies.
ARTstor This link opens in a new window
More than one million images. Interdisciplinary collections in the arts, architecture, humanities, and social sciences. It has more than 150 outstanding collections, including: The Museum of Modern Art, The Illustrated Bartsch, Berlin State Museums, The Metropolitan Museum of Art, Magnum Photos, Bodleian Library (University of Oxford), ART on FILE: Contemporary Architecture, Urban Design, and Landscape, National Gallery, Washington, DC, Natural History Museum, London, Scala Archives, Erich Lessing Culture and Fine Arts Archives, Latin American Art (Colección Patricia Phelps de Cisneros), QTVR Panoramas of World Architecture (Columbia University), Asian Art Photographic Distribution (AAPD) (University of Michigan).
Audio Drama - The L.A. Theatre Works Collection This link opens in a new window
It delivers, for the first time online, more than three hundred important dramatic works in streaming audio from the curated archive of the nation’s premiere radio theatre company. The plays - which include some of the most significant dramatic literature of the nineteenth, twentieth, and twenty-first centuries - are performed by leading actors from around the world and recorded specifically for online listening. Specialized indexing at the track level for over half of these recordings links individual segments of plays to specific academic disciplines and subject keywords. This allows researchers to find relevant scenes that touch on subjects in the humanities, social sciences, theatre, hard sciences, law, medicine, and virtually every other field of study.
B
BASE This link opens in a new window
BASE is one of the world's most voluminous search engines especially for academic web resources. BASE provides more than 200 million documents from more than 8,000 content providers.
Bates' Visual Guide This link opens in a new window
“Patient-first” approach to physical examination techniques featuring more than 8 hours of video content. Includes the Bates' Physical Examination Videos and the OSCE Clinical Skills Videos.
BCcampus This link opens in a new window
Repository of full length open textbooks. About 45% are peer reviewed.
BiblioBoard - North Carolina Central University The Early Years This link opens in a new window
Digital collections of books, images, articles, audio and video from leading publishers and archives around the world.
Bills from the NC General Assembly This link opens in a new window
Links for Bill Look-Up and Full Text Search of bills from 1997 to present; Session Law/Chaptered Bill Search; Tips for Finding Bills; Simple Bill Inquiry; and much more legislation information.
Biography Reference Center This link opens in a new window
A comprehensive collection of full-text biographies on popular and heavily-researched figures. Users can locate biographies of interest by browsing key categories, including occupation, nationality, publication and more than 30 genre categories including actors, artists, athletes, authors, current world leaders, explorers, scientists and many others.
Biography Reference eBook Collection This link opens in a new window
This ebook reference collection offers a rich selection of biographical eBook titles.
Biological Abstracts This link opens in a new window
Provides comprehensive coverage of journal literature in the life sciences from 1995 to present. Subjects include anatomy, biochemistry, biophysics, botany, cell biology, ecology, evolution, genetics, human biology, microbiology, physiology, reproduction, and zoology.
Biological Abstracts/Reports, Reviews, & Meetings (BA/RRM) This link opens in a new window
Provides the same coverage as Biological Abstracts with bibliographic references to meeting papers, books and chapters, review articles, and U. S. patents.
BIOSIS Citation Index This link opens in a new window
An expansive index to life sciences and biomedical research covering pre-clinical and experimental research, methods and instrumentation, animal studies, and more.
BIOSIS Previews This link opens in a new window
BIOSIS Previews is the world's most comprehensive reference database for life science research. It covers original research reports and reviews in traditional biological and biomedical areas. It also covers references to primary journal literature on vital biological research, medical research findings, and discoveries of new organisms.
Bloomsbury Berg Fashion Library This link opens in a new window
Winner of the Dartmouth Medal, it is the leading resource for students and researchers of fashion studies. Interdisciplinary in nature, with great visual and integrated content, it is invaluable for researchers in the areas of fashion, museum studies, cultural studies, anthropology, and more.
Bloomsbury Packt Game Development and Animation Collection This link opens in a new window
Alternate Name(s) The Packt Game Development and Animation collection is a detailed and coherent collection of technical titles on major game development and animation software. It provides vital practical knowledge for students creating games.
Books@Ovid This link opens in a new window
Books@Ovid supports your research needs by combining classic and groundbreaking titles in a large range of subject areas—including the world's largest online collection of core clinical texts—with the industry-leading search and discovery capabilities of the Ovid interface. Get anytime, anywhere online access to your essential textbooks. And as you link seamlessly between chapters, topics and referenced websites, as you browse the table of contents, Books@Ovid transforms research information into knowledge.
British Academy Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
It's a collection of monographs and essay collections from the distinguished British Academy list. Offering quick and easy access to the full-text of over 180 British Academy books, each title is fully cross-searchable and content can be shared, saved, and downloaded to suit the demands of the busy researcher.
British Online Archives (Trial Access ends Jan 5, 2026)
Hosting over six million records, carefully sourced from private and public archives, such as The National Archives (UK) and British Library, BOA’s specially curated primary source collections cover over 500 years of world history. They boast extensive documentation from across the globe, providing invaluable source material for students and researchers working within a wide range of scholarly disciplines, including history, politics, sociology, and international relations. Our unique digital holdings offer insights into global historical events and trends, typically through a British lens.
BrowZine This link opens in a new window
BrowZine lets you browse, read, save, and monitor scholarly journals in your subject areas on your mobile device or desktop/laptop.
Burean of Labor Statistics This link opens in a new window
The Bureau of Labor Statistics is a unit of the United States Department of Labor. It is the principal fact-finding agency for the U.S. government in the broad field of labor economics and statistics and serves as a principal agency of the U.S. Federal Statistical System.
Business Link North Carolina This link opens in a new window
Programs and resources for people starting a new business or moving a business to North Carolina.
Business Source Complete This link opens in a new window
This business resource exceeds all other databases available in terms of its premium content of peer-reviewed, business related journals. Included as part of the comprehensive coverage offered by Business Source Complete are indexing and abstracts for the most important scholarly business journals, dating back as far as 1886. In addition, searchable cited references are provided for more than 1,300 journals. It is the overwhelmingly superior database for full-text journals in all disciplines of business, including marketing, management, MIS, POM, accounting, finance and economics.
Business Source Complete Topic Searching
Alternate Name(s) Business Source Complete includes indexing is the overwhelmingly superior database for full-text journals in all disciplines of business, including marketing, management, MIS, POM, accounting, finance and economics.
C
Cabells This link opens in a new window
Cabells is the complete source for journal info, evaluation metrics, and submission details-for universities of any size. Real impact starts with finding the right audience.
Cairo Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
Cairo Scholarship Online (CSO) is delivered by University Press Scholarship Online (UPSO), a vast and rapidly-expanding online research library, offering full-text access to thousands of academic monographs from key disciplines in the humanities, social sciences, sciences, medicine, and law.
California Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
California Scholarship Online encompasses over 1,000 University of California Press' most notable monographs — from classic studies by some of the foremost names in their fields, to cutting-edge scholarship by up-and-coming authors.
Canadian Business and Current Affairs Database (CBCA) This link opens in a new window
Articles spanning Canadian agriculture, business and economics, education, government and politics, health sciences, history, literature, medical sciences, social sciences, and more, including scholarly content.
Canadian Newsstream This link opens in a new window
Over 300 Canadian newspapers from Canada's leading publishers, including the complete available electronic backfile for most newspapers, providing full access to the articles, columns, editorials and features.
Catalog of US Government Publications (CGP) This link opens in a new window
The CGP is the finding tool for federal publications that includes descriptive information for historical and current publications as well as direct links to the full document.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) This link opens in a new window
Resources about diseases, conditions and other special topics, with health immunizations and recommendations for travelers.
Centros para el Control y Prevencion de Enfermedades This link opens in a new window
Información y recursos para mantener la salud y prevenir enfermedades.
Chicago Manual of Style Online This link opens in a new window
The Chicago Manual of Style Online provides information on manuscript preparation, punctuation, spelling, quotations, captions, tables, abbreviations, references, bibliographies, notes, and indexes, with sections on journals and electronic media.
Chicago Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
The University of Chicago Press has been publishing books and journals for scholars and students since 1892, primarily in the humanities, law, social sciences, and life sciences. From Anthropology to Law, Biology to Sociology, Chicago Scholarship Online (CHSO) contains over 1,000 books across the humanities, social sciences, and sciences.
Child Development and Adolescent Studies This link opens in a new window
Produced by NISC, it is today's source for references to the current and historical literature related to growth and development of children through the age of 21. Book reviews and abstracts from hundreds of journals and a bibliography of thousands of technical reports, books, book chapters, theses and dissertations covering biomedical and social sciences are indexed. More than 342,000 records are included with over 10,000 new records added each year.
Chronicle of Higher Education This link opens in a new window
The Chronicle of Higher Education provides news information and jobs for college and university faculty and student affairs professionals. It is published every weekday and is the top destination for news, advice, and jobs for people in academe. The Chronicle's Web site features the complete contents of the latest issue; daily news and advice columns; thousands of current job listings; articles published since September 1989; vibrant forums; and career-building tools such as online CV management, salary databases, and more.
CINAHL Complete This link opens in a new window
This is the definitive research tool for nursing and allied health professionals. With CINAHL Complete, users get fast and easy full-text access to top journals, evidence-based care sheets, quick lessons and more.
CINAHL Plus with Full Text This link opens in a new window
Database of nursing and allied health journals with additional materials that include nursing dissertations, conference proceedings, evidence-based care sheets, audiovisuals, and continuing education modules.
Citation Machine This link opens in a new window
Citation Machine helps students and professionals properly credit the information that they use.
Classical Music Library This link opens in a new window
Classical Music Library is a database of sound recordings providing online access to over 30,000 classical music tracks, with more being added each month, from Alexander Street Press. Performers represented include Callas, Rattle, Perlman, Karajan, Barenboim and many others. You may browse the collection alphabetically or search by composer, artist, conductor, ensemble, instrument, genre, period, or label. Genres include orchestral, chamber, instrumental, stage and screen, vocal and choral, and opera and operetta. Music tracks play though an audio player but may not currently be downloaded. You may, however, create your own playlists by creating an account that is saved on the Classical Music Library server.
Classical Music Reference Library This link opens in a new window
Classical Music Reference Library brings together more than 30,000 pages of essential reference materials, spanning the entire history of Western classical music, in a unified online database. Included are the authoritative reference titles Baker's Dictionary of Music, Baker's Biographical Dictionary of Musicians, and Baker's Student Encyclopedia of Music, which are available for the first time in electronic form.
Classical Scores Library This link opens in a new window
Classical Scores Library will contain 400,000 pages of the most important classical scores and manuscripts, allowing for the study and analysis of more than 15,000 scores.
Classical Sheet Music This link opens in a new window
This site has classical sheet music for downloading and classical midi files for listening.
CLEOPATRA: Collected Lady Eagle Oral-History Project Training Research Acumen
CLEOPATRA is an oral history archive funded by a $500,000 grant from the Mellon Foundation to chronicle the personal history, academic background, career accomplishments, and legacies of Black women graduates of North Carolina Central University (NCCU) who have justice-based careers. Women who are educators, public health advocated, lawyers, judges, principals, librarians, journalists, and politicians have been interviewed by undergraduate students who ask them to trace the trajectory of their interests in social justice from their early life to their years at NCCU, in graduate or professional school, and volunteerism. The students, known as Mellon Scholar-Researchers, gather background information from NCCU's campus newspaper and yearbook as well as photographs & artifacts from the alumnae themselves. They create a presentation, transcribe the interview, and record it after they compose their own questions and chronicle her background information.
Cochrane Library This link opens in a new window
The Cochrane Library is a collection of high-quality, independent evidence to inform healthcare decision-making.
Columbia Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
Columbia University Press was founded in 1893 and is the fourth-oldest university press in the United States, and is renowned for the strength and diversity of its publishing. Hundreds of works from the Press are available through Columbia Scholarship Online, contributing to a variety of subjects including History, Biology, and Political Science.
Conference Proceedings Citatiion Index - Science This link opens in a new window
It helps researchers search the published literature from the most significant conferences, symposia, seminars, colloquia, workshops, and conventions. This resource offers a complete view of conference proceedings and their impact on global research, letting you use cited reference searching to track emerging ideas and new research beyond what is covered in the journal literature. It covers the sciences subject.
Conference Proceedings Citation Index - Social Science and Humanities This link opens in a new window
Helps researchers access the published literature from the most significant conferences, symposia, seminars, colloquia, workshops, and conventions worldwide. This resource offers a complete view of conference proceedings and their impact on global research, letting you use cited reference searching to track emerging ideas and new research beyond what is covered in the journal literature. It covers the social sciences and humanities.
Conformal Geometry and Dynamics This link opens in a new window
It provides a forum for mathematical work in related fields broadly described as conformal geometry and dynamics. These include complex dynamics--and real dynamics using complex techniques--Kleinian groups, hyperbolic geometry, Teichmüller theory, and quasiconformal mappings.
Congress.gov
United States Congress legislation, Congressional Record debates, Members of Congress​, legislative process educational resources presented by the Library of Congress.
Consumer Reports This link opens in a new window
Popular collection of product reviews and recommendations for cars, appliances, electronics, personal finance, and health information.
Contemporary World Music This link opens in a new window
Contemporary World Music delivers the sounds of all regions from every continent. The database will contain important genres such as reggae, worldbeat, neo-traditional, world fusion, Balkanic jazz, African film, Bollywood, Arab swing and jazz, and other genres such as traditional music - Indian classical, fado, flamenco, klezmer, zydeco, gospel, gagaku, and more.
Cornell Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
Cornell Scholarship Online offers hundreds of fascinating Cornell books, with particular strengths in anthropology, biological sciences, history, literary criticism and theory, natural history, politics and international relations, and sociology.
CQ Almanac This link opens in a new window
The acclaimed source for the best coverage and analysis of U.S. congressional legislation from 1945 to today is now available in a powerful, easy-to-navigate online edition. CQ Almanac is renowned for its in-depth analysis of the path legislation takes through Congress, including how bills are changed, derailed, or ultimately passed during an annual session of Congress.
CQ Historic Documents This link opens in a new window
It contains more than 32,000 print pages since 1972—provides rich depth of content and an ever-expanding area of coverage. These documents range from presidential speeches, international agreements, and Supreme Court decisions to U.S. governmental reports, scientific findings, and cultural discussions.
CQ Political Handbook of the World This link opens in a new window
With more than 200 entries on countries and territories throughout the world, it is the most authoritative source for finding complete facts and analysis on each country’s governmental and political makeup. It is renowned for its extensive coverage of all major and minor political parties and groups in each political system around the world. It also provides names of key ambassadors and international memberships of each country, plus profiles of over 75 intergovernmental organizations.
CQ Politics in America This link opens in a new window
It is an essential resource for any collection that serves readers who want authoritative information on the members of the 110th Congress. The profiles of the 535 members plus the delegates offer concise and candid analysis of personalities, political styles, legislative agendas, political ambitions, and reputations of members at home and on Capitol Hill. Detailed state and district information plus a wealth of information and data on campaign finance, partisan caucuses, standing committees, and other member facts round out the book.
CQ Press Library This link opens in a new window
CQ Press Library provides search to over 3,000 journals, magazines and newspapers articles on current and controversial issues.
CQ Researcher This link opens in a new window
The CQ Researcher provides original, comprehensive reporting and analysis on issues shaping our world. Each 12,000-word report is a unique work, investigated and written by a seasoned journalist. Published 44 times a year, CQ Researcher reports offer in-depth, non-biased coverage of political and social issues, with regular reports on topics in health, international affairs, education, the environment, technology, and the U.S. economy.
CQ Supreme Court Yearbook This link opens in a new window
The CQ Supreme Court Yearbook provides valuable in-depth coverage on every decision of the nation's highest court since 1989. It offers:
Year-end overviews of Supreme Court terms from 1989-2005
Case summaries of every opinion written during each court term
Essays on the most significant cases from each year and the trends in each term
Useful tables and figures on voting patterns and constitutional law
Supreme Court Yearbook Series Online Edition features easy-to-use search and browse functions that make navigation fast and simple
CQ Vital Statistics This link opens in a new window
It is a powerful tool for researching statistical data on politics on the United States. It offers users a wealth of data on elections and political parties, public opinion and voting, the media, the military, social and economic, policy, and much more. This new online resource features advanced data-export and download capabilities using Microsoft Excel® and other comma-separated variable formats that allow for easier statistical analysis.
CQ Washington Information Directory This link opens in a new window
WID is the essential one-stop source for information on U.S. governmental and non-governmental organizations.It provides capsule descriptions that help users quickly and easily find the right person at the right organization. WID provides contact information for:
Congress and federal agencies
Governors and other state officials
U.S. and foreign diplomats
Credo InfoLit Course modules are online tutorials to help students learn foundational information literacy skills.
Credo Reference This link opens in a new window Featured
A premier virtual reference collection including encyclopedias, dictionaries, atlases, images, audio files, and videos in a large expanse of subject areas.
Crime in North Carolina (Uniform Crime Report) This link opens in a new window
Law enforcement agencies report the number of offenses and associated crime data for the following Part 1 crimes: murder and non-negligent manslaughter, forcible rape, robbery, aggravated assault, burglary, larceny, motor vehicle theft and arson. Part 1 offenses, excluding negligent manslaughter and arson, are used to calculate the Crime Index and Crime Rate. All other offenses are classified as Part 2 offenses, however, only arrest data are reported for Part 2 offenses. The UCR Program collects data on the age, race and sex of persons arrested for all crimes except traffic violations. Statistics are broken down by county and the report is accessible in several sections using Adobe Acrobat.
Criminology This link opens in a new window
It covers such subjects as Criminal justice, Juvenile Delinquency, Juvenile Justice, Corrections, Penology, Policing, Forensic Psychology, and Family and Domestic Violence.
Current Chemical Reactions This link opens in a new window
It delivers the latestsyntheticmethodsreported in over 100 of the world's leading organic chemistryjournals. Each reaction provides complete reaction diagrams,critical conditions, bibliographic data, and author abstracts.
Current Contents Conect This link opens in a new window
1998 to the present. It covers agriculture, behavioral sciences, clinical medicine, life sciences, computer, technology, electronics, engineering and art & humanities.
Cypress Resume This link opens in a new window
Cypress Resume is the simplest, most effective tool for resume creation on the market today. Specifically designed for job seekers skittish about writing, Cypress Resume allows anyone to create a professional resume in a matter of minutes.
D
Data-Axle Reference Solutions This link opens in a new window
Formerly ReferenceUSA. Reference and research tool providing instant, real-time access to accurate, in-depth information on 24 million U.S. businesses and 235 million U.S. residents. It makes it faster and easier to find new business opportunities, research executives and companies, find news articles, conduct job searches, research papers, locate addresses and phone numbers, conduct market research and much more.
Digital Public Library of America This link opens in a new window
The Digital Public Library of America (DPLA) provides access to millions of photographs, manuscripts, books, sounds, moving images, and more from libraries, archives, and museums across the United States. Find primary sources to use in school projects, academic research, family history research, and more.
Digital Sanborn Maps (1867-1970) for North Carolina This link opens in a new window
Digital Sanborn Maps (1867-1970) for North Carolina delivers detailed property and land-use records that depict the grid of everyday life in 158 North Carolina towns and cities across a century of change.
DigitalNC This link opens in a new window
Explore the history and culture of North Carolina through original materials from cultural heritage repositories across the state.
Dissertations and Theses Global This link opens in a new window Featured
Includes over 2 million master's theses and dissertations, with over 60,000 titles added every year. It's a great resource for researchers in a large variety of fields.
DOAJ This link opens in a new window
Directory of Open Access Journals is a service that indexes and provides access to quality-controlled Open Access Journals and their articles. The Directory aims to be comprehensive and cover all open access scientific and scholarly journals that use an appropriate quality control system, and it will not be limited to particular languages or subject areas.
Dove Medical Press This link opens in a new window
Provides access to Open access peer-reviewed scientific and medical journals.
E
Eagle Scholar Institutional Repository at NC Central University Featured
The Eagle Scholar Institutional Repository (IR) at North Carolina Central University is a digital collection of the university’s research, scholarship, and creative work. It helps share and preserve materials created by NCCU faculty, staff, and students. The IR makes these works freely available online so others can learn from and build on them. It supports the university’s mission to promote knowledge, learning, and global access to information.
Earth, Atmospheric and Aquatic Science Database This link opens in a new window
The Earth, Atmospheric Aquatic Science Database contains full-text titles from around the world, including scholarly journals, trade and industry journals, magazines, technical reports, conference proceedings, and government publications.
eBook Academic Collection (EBSCOhost) This link opens in a new window
It contains a large selection of multidisciplinary eBook titles representing a broad range of academic subject matter, and is a strong complement for any academic collection. The breadth of information available through this package ensures that users will have information relevant to their research needs.
Ebook Central Academic and Public Library Complete This link opens in a new window Featured
Scholarly titles supporting student and faculty research, and general nonfiction on topics such as school and studying, career development, arts and leisure, and practical life skills.
eBook Collection (EBSCOhost) This link opens in a new window
Provides easy search to the full text of more than thousands reference, scholarly, and professional books.
eBooks on EBSCOhost This link opens in a new window Featured
Over 200,000 fiction, reference, scholarly, and professional books online.
Edinburgh Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
Every book published by Edinburgh University Press has been peer reviewed and passed by the Edinburgh University Press Committee, their panel of expert academics from the world-class University of Edinburgh. So whatever topic you’re researching, you can be sure your sources are of the highest academic standards.
Education Source This link opens in a new window
Education Source is designed to meet the needs of education students, professionals and policy makers. The collection provides indexing and abstracts for 3,000 academic periodicals and includes full text for more than 1,800 journals, 550 books and monographs, education-related conference papers, citations for over 4 million articles including book reviews and over hundred thousand controlled and cross-referenced names of educational tests. Coverage in Education Source spans every level of education from early education to higher education and also includes educational specialties such as multilingual education, health education and testing.
Education Week This link opens in a new window
It is the independent, nonprofit publisher of Education Week and other high-quality print and online products on K-12 education. EPE's mission is to raise awareness and understanding of critical issues facing American schools. Education Week is a reputable resource preparing our future teachers and administrators. Providing critical news and analytics, case study, research and market intelligence in K-12 education.
Educational Administration Abstracts This link opens in a new window
Educational Administration Abstracts includes bibliographic records covering areas related to educational administration, including educational leadership, educational management, educational research, and other areas of key relevance to the discipline. The index contains more than 190,000 records, which are carefully selected from the most important sources within the discipline.
eLibrary This link opens in a new window
This easy-to-use curriculum and reference resource delivers one of the largest general reference collections of periodical and digital media content designed specifically for schools and libraries of all kinds, as well as additional subject-based material.
Encyclopedia of US Political History This link opens in a new window
Explores the events, policies, activities, institutions, groups, people, and movements that have created and shaped political life in the United States. Provides students, researchers, and scholars the opportunity to examine the political evolution of the United States from the 1500s to the present day. It focus on the following themes of political history:
The three branches of government
Elections and political parties
Legal and constitutional histories
Political movements and philosophies, and key political figures
Economics
Military politics
International relations, treaties, and alliances
Regional histories
EndNote Online This link opens in a new window
EndNote online, formerly EndNote Web, is the online counterpart to our popular desktop reference management and bibliography creation software.
Engineering Database This link opens in a new window
This database provides discipline-specific coverage of engineering, spanning thousands of publications, many in full text.
English Poetry This link opens in a new window
Essentially the complete English poetic canon from 600 to 1900. Over 165,000 poems by more than 1,250 poets drawn from nearly 4,500 printed sources. Indexed from 600 to 1900.
Entrepreneurial Mindset Training Course This link opens in a new window
This online, self-paced course will help you recognize opportunities that others overlook and determine whether starting a business is right for you.
Entrepreneurial Studies Source This link opens in a new window
It offers users full text for more than 125 key periodicals, 135 reference books, numerous case studies, thousands of company profiles and over 600 videos with transcripts and related articles from the Harvard Faculty Seminar Series and Vator.TV, one of the world's largest social network sites for high-tech entrepreneurs.
Environment Complete This link opens in a new window
It offers deep coverage in applicable areas of agriculture, ecosystem ecology, energy, renewable energy sources, natural resources, marine and freshwater science, geography, pollution and waste management, environmental technology, environmental law, public policy, social impacts, urban planning, and more. It contains more than 2.5 million records from more than 2,200 domestic and international titles going back to 1888 (including over 1,350 active core titles). The database contains full text for more than 920 journals, including many of the most used journals in the discipline, such as Environment (back to 1975), Ecologist, Conservation Biology, etc. Additionally, it provides full text for more than 190 monographs, such as Encyclopedia of World Environmental History (3 volumes), Advances in Water Treatment and Environmental Management, etc
ERIC This link opens in a new window
Indexes over 750 journals in the field of education from 1966 to present. Includes full text of ERIC Digests from 1967 to present.
ERIC via the US Department of Education This link opens in a new window
Educational journals and documents, including conference papers, policy papers, and documents from a variety of sources.
Essential Science Indicators This link opens in a new window
1995-Present. Provides online unique and comprehensive compilation of essential science performance statistics and science trends.
Ethnic NewsWatch (ENW) This link opens in a new window
It is a current resource of full-text newspapers, magazines, and journals of the ethnic and minority press, providing researchers access to essential, often overlooked perspectives.
Exploring Race in Society This link opens in a new window
Essays that provide a understanding of how current issues stem from actions and policies of the past.
F
Faber Poetry Library This link opens in a new window
A collection of some of the most influential poets of the twentieth century. The Faber list includes Ted Hughes, Seamus Heaney, T. S. Eliot and Sylvia Plath covering the seventy year history of this major publishing house.
FAITS (Faulkner's Advisory for Information Technology Studies) This link opens in a new window
Library of reports covering IT infrastructure, wireless technology, security, data networking, technology vendors, and more. Useful for tracking technology trends, strategic planning, competitive analysis, market awareness, and product/vendor evaluation. FAITS is a comprehensive, one-of-a-kind online technology reports library that was created especially for use by the academic community. Continually updated and fully searchable, FAITS contains hundreds of reports that are clearly written, consistent in format, and easy to understand. Reports are designed to help students, educators, and administrators learn about and keep up with the critical issues, trends, market conditions, products, services, and vendors driving the information technology industry.
Ferguson's Career Guidance Center This link opens in a new window
Ferguson's Career Guidance Center is a comprehensive resource that enables users to explore industries and careers, plan their education, and research best practices for resumes, cover letters, interviewing, networking, and salaries/benefits. The database includes articles, career advice blogs, and streaming video.
Film and Television Literature Index with Full Text This link opens in a new window
Film & Television Literature Index with Full Text is the pinnacle resource for researchers of film and television, providing the most comprehensive, balanced collection of full-text and bibliographic coverage from scholarly and popular sources, and spanning the entire spectrum of film and television studies. 
Films On Demand Video Collection This link opens in a new window Featured
Thousands of high quality videos on business and economics, health and medicine, humanities and social sciences, and science and mathematics, as well as travel and fitness programming, home and how-to videos, indie films, and popular music performances. Includes Oscar, Emmy and Peabody award winning documentaries, interviews, instructional and vocational training videos, historical speeches and newsreels.
Florida Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
Florida Scholarship Online (FLSO) is part of a vast and rapidly-expanding online research library, offering access to thousands of academic monographs.
Fordham Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
Fordham Scholarship Online (FSO) is delivered by University Press Scholarship Online (UPSO), a rapidly-expanding online research library, containing thousands of academic monographs in the humanities, social sciences, sciences, medicine, and law.
G
Gale Academic OneFile This link opens in a new window
Quickly access articles from a database of scholarly journals and other trusted periodicals. Best for academic research.
Gale Access This link opens in a new window
General reference database from magazines, journals and newspapers, including peer-reviewed and scholarly works.
Gale Biography and Genealogy Master Index This link opens in a new window
Alternate Name(s) BGMI
Biography and Genealogy Master Index enables users to locate biographical entries contained in more than 1,000 volumes and editions of important current and retrospective biographical reference sources. This index contains citations that point to over 15 million biographies on nearly 5 million people, living and deceased, from all time periods, geographical locations, and fields of endeavor.
Gale Business Insights - Global This link opens in a new window
It is a unique source for international business intelligence offering the most comprehensive and convenient way to find case studies, in-depth statistical data coupled with deep research, and the ability to compare global economies, countries and industries.
Gale Chiltonlibrary.Com This link opens in a new window
ChiltonLibrary.com represents the most authoritative automotive repair information available to car owners. There are thousands of year, make and model combinations covering the most popular vehicles of the past 30 years, plus additional coverage of specialty models. ChiltonLibrary.com gives you the confidence to service or repair virtually any system on your vehicle.
Gale Directory Library This link opens in a new window
Gale Directory Library hosts a variety of directories to choose from. Use it to search, sort and export a variety of information. Multiple directories can be cross-searched or users can mine individual directories for the particular kinds of data they contain, such as financial information for companies, membership figures for associations, general contact information, and much more.
Gale eBooks This link opens in a new window
Searchable collection of online reference titles and test prep ebooks.
Gale General OneFile This link opens in a new window
Access an unprecedented number of general reference magazines and key serials in a single resource. Best for general research.
Gale Health and Wellness This link opens in a new window
It offers access to thousands of full-text medical journals, magazines, reference works, multimedia, and more. Perfect for researchers at all levels, this comprehensive consumer health resource provides authoritative information on the full range of health-related issues, from current disease and disorder information to in-depth coverage of alternative medical practices, and more.
Gale In Context - Biography This link opens in a new window
It is an online experience for those seeking contextual information on the world's most influential people. Biography merges Gale's authoritative reference content with periodicals and multimedia organized into a user-friendly portal experience while allowing users to search for people based on name, occupation, nationality, ethnicity, birth/death dates and places, or gender as well as keyword and full text.
Gale In Context - College This link opens in a new window
It is an online experience for those seeking contextual information on a large array of subjects. The solution merges Gale's authoritative and continuously updated reference content with full-text magazines, academic journals, news articles, primary source documents, images, videos, audio files and links to vetted websites organized into a user-friendly portal experience.
Gale In Context - Environmental Studies This link opens in a new window
It focuses on the physical and social aspects of environmental issues. Topic, organization, state and province portals form research centers around issues covering earth systems, global change, land and water use, populations, legislation, and more. Portal overviews provide essential information, supplemented by academic journals, news, case studies, conferences, statistics, and rich multimedia.
Gale In Context - Global Issues This link opens in a new window
Analyze important global issues and events of the modern world based on international viewpoints. Continuously updated.
Gale In Context - Opposing Viewpoints This link opens in a new window
It is an online experience for those seeking contextual information and opinions on hundreds of today's hottest social issues. Drawing on the acclaimed Greenhaven Press series, the solution features continuously updated viewpoints, topic overviews, full-text magazines, academic journals, news articles, primary source documents, statistics, images, videos, audio files and links to vetted websites organized into a user-friendly portal experience.
Gale In Context - US History This link opens in a new window
It is an online experience for those seeking contextual information on hundreds of the most significant people, events and topics in U.S. History. U.S. History merges Gale's authoritative reference content with full-text magazines, academic journals, news articles, primary source documents, images, videos, audio files and links to vetted websites organized into a user-friendly portal experience.
Gale In Context - World History This link opens in a new window
It is an online experience for those seeking contextual information on hundreds of the most significant people, events and topics in World History. World History merges Gale's authoritative reference content with full-text magazines, academic journals, news articles, primary source documents, images, videos, audio files and links to vetted websites organized into a user-friendly portal experience.
Gale Literary Sources This link opens in a new window
Combines Literature Resource Center with Gale Virtual Reference Library in one interface. Articles, critical essays, work and topic overviews, full-text works, and biographies covering authors, their works, and literary movements.
Gale Literature - Book Review Index This link opens in a new window
It includes more than 5.6 million book reviews, allowing users to conduct research in numerous disciplines, including literature, history, education, psychology, and more. This unique product provides quick access to reviews of books, periodicals, books on tape and electronic media representing a large range of popular, academic and professional interests.
Gale Literature - LitFinder This link opens in a new window
Access literary works and authors throughout history, including full-text poems, poetry citations, short stories, and more.
Gale Literature Resource Center This link opens in a new window
Articles, critical essays, work and topic overviews, full-text works, and biographies covering authors, their works, and literary movements.
Gale OneFile - Agriculture This link opens in a new window
It provides access to journals covering agriculture and its related fields. Researchers can access current and authoritative periodical content that spans the industry—from practical aspects of farming to cutting-edge scientific research in horticulture.
Gale OneFile - Business This link opens in a new window
It contains full-text coverage of all business disciplines, including accounting, economics, finance, marketing, management and strategy, and business theory and practice. Users will understand the activities of companies and industries through leading business and trade publications, which are updated daily. Complementing these titles is a selection of international, U.S., and regional news publications.
Gale OneFile - Communications and Mass Media This link opens in a new window
It meets the needs of researchers with journal articles on all aspects of the communications field, including advertising, public relations, linguistics, and literature.
Gale OneFile - Computer Science This link opens in a new window
It provides search to leading business and technical publications in the computer, telecommunications, and electronics industries. The database provides information on computer-related product introductions, news and reviews in areas like hardware, software, electronics, engineering, communications, and the application of technology.
Gale OneFile - Contemporary Women's Issues This link opens in a new window
It offers comprehensive coverage of issues that influence women’s lives across the globe. Users will find timely and historically relevant content on topics including civil rights, health, education, professional development, and entrepreneurship.
Gale OneFile - Criminal Justice This link opens in a new window
It informs the research process for researchers who are studying law, law enforcement, or terrorism; training for paralegal service; preparing for a career in homeland security; delving into forensic science; investigating crime scenes; developing policy; going to court; writing sociological reports; and much more.
Gale OneFile - Culinary Arts This link opens in a new window
It offers a variety of information from major cooking and nutrition magazines as well as book reference content from Delmar.
Gale OneFile - Diversity Studies This link opens in a new window
It prepares researchers for social science, history, and liberal arts coursework. This collection explores cultural differences, contributions, and influences in the global community.
Gale OneFile - Economics and Theory This link opens in a new window
It offers a strong emphasis on titles covered in the EconLit bibliographic index. This content is useful for starting a business, marketing a product, developing policy, analyzing trends, constructing economic models, investing for the future, researching rates, and more.
Gale OneFile - Educator's Reference Complete This link opens in a new window
It is a great resource for a variety of educators—from teachers and administrators to those studying in the field at the collegiate and graduate level. It seeks to provide full text for titles in the ERIC database and covers multiple levels of education and every educational specialty, such as technology, bilingual education, health education, and testing, and provides insight on issues in administration, funding, and policy.
Gale OneFile - Entrepreneurship This link opens in a new window
It provides insights, tips, strategies, and success stories for business schools and entrepreneurs.
Gale OneFile - Environmental Studies and Policy This link opens in a new window
It answers inquiries about environmental concerns with coverage journals and reference content from Delmar and diverse perspectives from the scientific community, governmental policymakers, and corporate interests.
Gale OneFile - Fine Arts This link opens in a new window
It places millions of articles at the fingertips of serious students of drama, music, art history, and filmmaking.
Gale OneFile - Gardening and Horticulture This link opens in a new window
It focuses on the practical aspects and the scientific theory of horticulture studies. Gardening and Horticulture offers biotechnologists, farmers, hobbyists, and landscape architects access to important content relevant to their pursuits.
Gale OneFile - Gender Studies This link opens in a new window
It provides balanced coverage of this significant aspect of culture and society. This database includes topics related to gender studies, family and marital issues, and more.
Gale OneFile - Health and Medicine This link opens in a new window
It includes information created specifically for students, knowledgeable consumer health researchers, and health care professionals. This database is the perfect resource for up-to-date information on a complete range of healthcare topics.
Gale OneFile - Hospitality and Tourism This link opens in a new window
It provides access to topics including the cultural and economic aspects of travel and tourism. Hospitality and Tourism offers current and relevant content on both the historical and current state of affairs in the hospitality and tourism industries.
Gale OneFile - Information Science This link opens in a new window
It contains valuable content for library science students, information science students, technology professionals, and others. Information Science is updated daily with articles covering all aspects of managing and maintaining information and technology, including usability, cataloging, circulation, business information, and more.
Gale OneFile - Informe Académico This link opens in a new window
Search across full-text Spanish and Portuguese-language scholarly journals and magazines from and about Latin America.
Gale OneFile - LegalTrac This link opens in a new window
It provides indexing for law reviews, legal newspapers, specialty publications, Bar Association journals, and international legal journals. The American Association of Law Libraries endorses LegalTrac, and its special advisory committee selects, reviews, and enhances the content of this resource. This database offers coverage of federal and state cases, laws and regulations, legal practice and taxation, and British Commonwealth, European Union, and international law.
Gale OneFile - Military and Intelligence This link opens in a new window
It contains scholarly journals, magazines, and reports covering all aspects of past and present military affairs. Updated daily, content supports key subject areas, such as governmental policies, the socioeconomic effects of war, the structure of the armed forces, and more.
Gale OneFile - News This link opens in a new window
Access major U.S. and international newspapers online to search articles instantly by title, headline, date, or other fields.
Gale OneFile - Nursing and Allied Health This link opens in a new window
It includes full-text titles cited in CINAHL to support specialized care, treatment, and patient management. Nursing and Allied Health helps nursing professionals working in the field as well as students studying a nursing-focused curriculum.
Gale OneFile - Physical Therapy and Sports Medicine This link opens in a new window
It covers the fields of physical therapy, physical fitness, and sports medicine. Physical Therapy and Sports Medicine offers a broad spectrum of information, including proven treatment techniques, experimental research, and more.
Gale OneFile - Pop Culture Studies This link opens in a new window
It analyzes and contributes to popular culture by offering useful information for researchers in social science, history, art, and liberal arts courses.
Gale OneFile - Psychology This link opens in a new window
It supports research in all fields of psychology: abnormal, biological, cognitive, comparative, developmental, personality, quantitative, social, and all areas of applied psychology. Researchers, psychologists, counselors, and behavioral scientists will discover relevant information from the thoughts, views, discoveries, and reports found in this comprehensive collection.
Gale OneFile - Religion and Philosophy This link opens in a new window
It covers topics of philosophies and religions in one comprehensive collection. Researchers will gain valuable insight about the impact religion has had on culture throughout history, including literature, arts, and language. Updated daily, Religion and Philosophy supports a broad range of topics from theological approaches to social issues.
Gale OneFile - US History This link opens in a new window
It contains scholarly journals and magazines that can be used by novice historians as well as advanced academic researchers. Updated daily, U.S. History offers balanced coverage of events in U.S. history and scholarly work being established in the field.
Gale OneFile - Vocations and Careers This link opens in a new window
It aids users in researching a vocation, finding an appropriate institution of learning, job searching, and maintaining a career. Vocations and Careers offers hundreds of current and applicable periodicals ranging from general career guides to highly specialized industry journals.
Gale OneFile - War and Terrorism This link opens in a new window
It contains millions of articles to help researchers gain valuable insight into conflicts and their causes, impact, and perception on a global scale. This definitive collection is intended for analysts, risk management professionals, and students of military science, history, and social science.
Gale OneFile - World History This link opens in a new window
It provides access to scholarly journals and magazines for use by novice historians and advanced academic researchers. World History offers balanced coverage of events in world history and scholarly work being established in the field.
Gale PowerSearch This link opens in a new window
Search for any term or phrase and find articles from thousands of magazines, journals, newspapers and books along with videos, images and podcast content.
Garland Encyclopedia of World Music This link opens in a new window
The Garland Encyclopedia of World Music Online is the first comprehensive online resource devoted to music research of all the world's peoples. More than 9,000 pages of material, combined with entries by more than 700 expert contributors from all over the world, make this the most complete body of work focused on world music.
Gender Studies Database This link opens in a new window
Gender Studies Database combines Women's Studies International and Men's Studies databases with the coverage of sexual diversity issues. GSD covers the full spectrum of gender-engaged scholarship inside and outside academia. This database includes more than 921,000 records with coverage spanning from 1972 and earlier to the present.
Geological Society of America Bulletin This link opens in a new window
It is the Society's premier scholarly journal, published continuously since 1890. Fully refereed, each bimonthly issue includes 16–20 papers reporting major research in the traditional, documented, research-paper style. Topics cover the entire range of the earth sciences. GSA Bulletin is profusely illustrated with occasional color and large inserts.
Geology This link opens in a new window
It published since 1973, features rapid publication of about 23 refereed short (four-page) papers each month. Articles cover all earth-science disciplines and include new investigations and provocative topics. Professional geologists and university-level students in the earth sciences use this read journal to keep up with scientific research trends. The online forum section facilitates author-reader dialog. Includes color and occasional large-format illustrations on over-sized loose inserts.
Global Breaking Newswires This link opens in a new window
Global Breaking Newswires provides timely access to newswires content from around the globe as well as growing archive of news.
Go Ask Alice This link opens in a new window
It is the health question and answer Internet resource produced by the Alice!, Health Promotion Program at Columbia University - a division of Health Services at Columbia. This site has three primary features:
New GAA! Questions and answers of the Week gives you the most recently published inquiries and responses - this section is updated every Friday.
Search GAA! lets you find health information by subject via a search of the ever-growing Go Ask Alice! archives containing over 3,000 previously-posted questions and answers, and reader responses.
Ask Alice! gives you the chance to ask and submit a question to Alice.
Google Books This link opens in a new window
Search the world's most comprehensive index of full-text books.
Google Patents This link opens in a new window
Search and read the full text of patents from around the world.
Google Scholar This link opens in a new window
Google Scholar provides a simple way to broadly search for scholarly literature. From one place, you can search across many disciplines and sources: articles, theses, books, abstracts and court opinions, from academic publishers, professional societies, online repositories, universities and other web sites. Google Scholar helps you find relevant work across the world of scholarly research.
Government Employee Telephone Directory This link opens in a new window
NC State Capital Area Telephone Directory online. A searchable alphabetical listing, plus the departmental directory are included.
govinfo This link opens in a new window
Govinfo is a service of the U.S. Government Printing Office that provides online search of a wealth of important information products produced by the Federal Government. The information provided on this site is the official, published version and the information retrieved from govinfo can be used without restriction, unless specifically noted. This service is funded by the Federal Depository Library Program and has grown out of Public Law 103-40, known as the Government Printing Office Electronic Information Enhancement Act of 1993.
GreenFILE This link opens in a new window
Scholarly and general interest titles, government documents, and reports related to the topic of ecology.
H
HathiTrust Digital Library This link opens in a new window
HathiTrust Digital Library is a digital preservation repository and highly functional access platform. It provides long-term preservation and access services for public domain and in copyright content from a variety of sources, including Google, the Internet Archive, Microsoft, and in-house partner institution initiatives.
Hawai'i Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
It offers access to hundreds of high-quality monographs across Anthropology, History, Religion, and Society and Culture.
Health and Psychosocial Instruments This link opens in a new window
Produced by Behavioral Measurement Database Services, this bibliographic database is abstracted from hundreds of leading journals covering health and psychosocial sciences. It provides information about behavioral measurement instruments, including those from Industrial Organizational Behavior and Education.
Health Science - A SAGE Full-Text Collection This link opens in a new window
Social studies of health, public policy, health services and administration, health education, community/public health nursing. 1982-Current.
Health Source - Consumer Edition This link opens in a new window
Provides consumer oriented information on many health topics including the medical sciences, food sciences and nutrition, childcare, sports medicine, and general health. Includes searchable full text for over 150 consumer health journals, abstracts and indexing for nearly 175 general health, nutrition and professional health care publications.
Health Source - Nursing/Academic Edition This link opens in a new window
Provides more than 400 scholarly full text journals focusing on many medical disciplines. Also featured are abstracts and indexing for over 500 journals.
Healthfinder This link opens in a new window
Journals, magazines, and medical dictionaries on minority health, as well as prevention and self-care on a variety of topics such as pregnancy, HIV, diabetes, women's health, and more.
HealthFinder en espanol This link opens in a new window
Journals, magazines, and medical dictionaries on minority health, as well as prevention and self-care on a variety of topics such as pregnancy, HIV, diabetes, women's health, and more. In Spanish.
Herald-Sun This link opens in a new window
Daily newspaper in Durham, North Carolina. It's in text format. 1995 - Current.
Herald-Sun Collection This link opens in a new window
Explore Durham history through local events and people with the Herald-Sun Collection. Search current and historical issues with full-color newspapers, full-text articles and content only published online. Available remotely anytime on any device.
HeritageQuest This link opens in a new window
Provides libraries with a unique, growing collection of research materials for tracing family history and American culture. Contains original page images for all documents, over 25,000 books, the entire U.S. Federal Census, PERSI™, and other expanding collections.
Hillside High School Student Newspaper Historic Issues This link opens in a new window
Hillside High School Student Newspaper Historic Issues that are searchable online. User could browse them by year.
Hindawi Publishing This link opens in a new window
Commercial publisher of peer-reviewed journals covering a large range of academic disciplines
Historic North Carolina Digital Newspaper Collection This link opens in a new window
Newspapers.com North Carolina Collection. 3.5 million pages of digitized content from over 1,000 NC county newspapers.
Historical Abstracts This link opens in a new window
It is an exceptional resource that covers the history of the world (excluding the United States and Canada) from 1450 to the present, including world history, military history, women's history, history of education, and more - essential for libraries supporting upper-division and graduate research. This authoritative database provides indexing of more than 1,800 academic historical journals in over 40 languages back to 1955.
Historical Newspapers - Christian Science Monitor, The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post This link opens in a new window
Includes historical backfiles of Christian Science Monitor (1908-1998), New York Times (1851-2008), Wall Street Journal (1889-1994)and Washinton Post (1877-1995).
History Commons This link opens in a new window
It makes available vast quantities of archived historical information, previously furnished only on microfilm. Its primary source material has been selected to reflect a broad view of the times, and has been assembled into databases with a strict attention to detail allowing access to specific information with pinpoint accuracy. Its full text search capability and digital imaging permits the user to search and manipulate information in ways never before possible.
History Study Center This link opens in a new window
A collection of primary and secondary sources on global history from ancient times to the present day.
HomeGrown eBooks Collection This link opens in a new window
A collection of more than 1,000 eBooks from a variety of North Carolina publishers. Includes popular and scholarly nonfiction, novels by well-known NC authors, and award-winning short fiction and poetry.
Hong Kong Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
It's a vast and rapidly-expanding online research library, offering full-text access to thousands of academic monographs from key disciplines in the humanities, social sciences, sciences, medicine, and law.
Hoopla This link opens in a new window
Downloadable audio and ebooks on a variety of topics, including language learning, history, biography, classic literature, and more. Compatible with all popular e-readers. An app is available for download. Users will need to make a personal account to use this resource.
Hospitality and Tourism Complete This link opens in a new window
This full-text database is a trusted and unique resource for information covering all areas of hospitality and tourism. In addition to full-text journals, it provides magazines, company and country reports, books and newspapers.
https://www.ojp.gov/ This link opens in a new window
NCJRS Abstracts Database contains summaries of the more than 195,000 criminal justice, juvenile justice, and substance abuse resources housed in the NCJRS Library collection.
Human Kinetics Library
Human Kinetics Library Core Collection
The collection contains over 190 market-leading ebooks from Human Kinetics, including textbooks, supplementary monographs and materials for practitioners.
Human Kinetics Library Core Collection Videos
Browse Human Kinetics Library videos by title set, offering market-leading demonstrations of exercise movements and explanations of key physical activity concepts.
I
IBISWorld This link opens in a new window
IBIS World provides a comprehensive and up-to-date collection of US Industry Research covering more than 700 Industries at the 5-digit NAICS codes. It includes factual and easy-to-use reports on any industry in the US economy.
IEEE Publication Recommender
Search 190+ periodicals and 1800+ conferences, Compare critical points such as Impact Factor and Submission-To-Publication Time, and get key data about IEEE publications.
IEEE xplore Digital Library This link opens in a new window
It is a powerful resource for searching scientific and technical content published by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and its publishing partners. It provides more than three million full-text documents from some of the world's most highly cited publications in electrical engineering, computer science and electronics.
IGI Global This link opens in a new window
IGI Library & Info Science e-Book Collection 2000-current and Diversity, equity, and inclusion e-Book Collection 2019 – current. A total of 20,000 e-books and the Journal of Business Ecosystems.
Illinois Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
The Press publishes scholarly books and serious nonfiction, with special interest in African American history; American history; anthropology; architectural history; Asian and Asian American studies; cinema studies; communications; disability studies; folklore; food studies; Illinois and the Midwest; Latin American studies; literary biography; music; religious studies; science fiction studies; sport; women and gender studies; and working-class history.
Index Chemicus This link opens in a new window
It provides researchers, administrators, faculty, and students with quick, powerful access to the chemical compound information they need to find research data, analyze trends, journals and researchers, and share their findings. Covering more than 100 of the world's leading organic chemistry journals, it is text- and substructure-searchable, and offers full graphical summaries, important reaction diagrams, and complete bibliographic information.
Index to Legal Periodicals Retrospective This link opens in a new window
This retrospective database indexes over 750 legal periodicals published in the United States, Canada, Great Britain, Ireland, Australia and New Zealand. Annual surveys of the laws of a jurisdiction, annual surveys of the federal courts, yearbooks, annual institutes, and annual reviews of the work in a given field or on a given topic will also be covered.
Inspec This link opens in a new window
1898 to the present. Produced by the Institution of Electrical Engineers, Inspec® is the leading English-language bibliographic information service providing the world's scientific and technical literature in the fields, Physics, Electrical Engineering, Electronics Communications, Control Engineering, Computers and IT etc.
International Bibliography of Theatre & Dance (IBTD) with Full Text This link opens in a new window
This database is the definitive research tool for theatre and dance studies. In addition to all the comprehensive indexing of the International Bibliography of Theatre & Dance (IBTD), it contains full text for top performing arts journals.
International Financial Statistics This link opens in a new window
IFS is a monthly database produced by the International Monetary Fund which provides time series data covering approximately 26,000 economic concepts which show major economic aggregates used in the analysis of economic developments and includes data on exchange rates, balance of payments, banking and financial systems, fund positions, interest rates, government finance, international liquidity and banking, national accounts, employment, population, prices, production, and trade.
International Newsstream This link opens in a new window
International Newsstream provides information from more than 660 of the world's top newspapers, including The Times (London), The Bangkok Post, El Norte, Financial Times, The Guardian, Jerusalem Post, South China Morning Post, The Daily Telegraph, Asian Wall Street Journal, and the BBC Monitoring series of publications.
IOPscience Extra This link opens in a new window
IOPscience Extra provides online journal content published by IOP Publishing. IOPscience research covers scientific, technical and medical content.
J
J-STAGE This link opens in a new window
J-STAGE is an electronic journal platform for science and technology information. J-STAGE aims to accelerate the speed of communication and ensure the internationalization of the science and technology information. By providing an online publication platform, J-STAGE has published more than 2,000 journals, conference proceedings and other academic publications.
Jane - Journal/Author Name Estimator This link opens in a new window
Use this website to help determine the best MEDLINE journal to approach for publishing a manuscript.
Jazz Music Library This link opens in a new window
Jazz Music Library from Alexander Street Press offers an extensive collection of online audio recordings to support the teaching and research of jazz and related musical genres, including vocal jazz, bebop, acid jazz, big band music, modern jazz, and more.
Job Openings This link opens in a new window
Job openings: NC state government jobs, America's Job Bank, and additional job search resources.
Journal Citation Reports This link opens in a new window
Journal Citation Reports is a comprehensive and unique resource that allows you to evaluate and compare journals using citation data drawn from over 7,500 scholarly and technical journals from more than 3,300 publishers in over 60 countries. It is the only source of citation data on journals, and includes virtually all areas of science, technology, and social sciences.
Journal of Chemical Education This link opens in a new window
It is the world's premier chemical education journal. The journal publishes peer-reviewed articles and related information as a resource to those in the field of chemical education and to those institutions that serve them. JCE typically addresses chemical content, activities, laboratory experiments, instructional methods, and pedagogies. The Journal serves as a means of communication among people across the world who are interested in the teaching and learning of chemistry.
Journal Suggester This link opens in a new window
Enter your manuscript details to see a list of Springer journals most suitable for your research.
JournalFinder (Elsevier) This link opens in a new window
Insert your title and abstract and select the appropriate field-of-research for the best results into the Elsevier Journal Finder to match your article to Elsevier journals.
JournalGuide This link opens in a new window
Enter the title, keyword, or abstract of your paper into the database from JournalGuide to find journals that match your topic.
Journals @ Ovid This link opens in a new window
Includes over 45 essential and highly cited scientific, technical, and medical journals.
JoVE Basic Biology Series This link opens in a new window
The original Biology series contains collections focused on lab equipment, safety and animal research, as well as basic biology techniques and fundamentals.
JoVE Bioengineering This link opens in a new window
JoVE Bioengineering includes methods and tools that apply engineering to life science research for the study of biological processes and development of new therapies and diagnostics.
JoVE Biology This link opens in a new window
JoVE Biology includes techniques and experimental approaches in the fields of cellular, molecular, and organismal biology.
JoVE Immunology and Infection This link opens in a new window
JoVE Immunology and Infection includes methods and techniques for studying the immune system, mechanisms of infection, biological responses to pathogens, and therapeutic agents for treating immunological disease.
JoVE Medicine This link opens in a new window
JoVE Medicine includes methods and experimental approaches for biomedical research and clinical medicine, including case studies, clinical procedures, surgeries, clinical trials, and animal models of disease.
JoVE Neuroscience This link opens in a new window
JoVE Neuroscience includes methods and techniques for studying the brain and nervous system; also featuring potential treatments for neurological conditions and diseases.
JSTOR This link opens in a new window
Archive of over hundred full text scholarly journals in the arts and sciences. Does not include issues from recent volumes usually the last 2-5 years.
Just for Kids This link opens in a new window
The collection gives children and their parents—a thoroughly kid-safe media platform they can explore and enjoy.
K
Kentucky Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
It's a vast and rapidly-expanding online research library, offering full-text access to thousands of academic monographs from key disciplines in the humanities, social sciences, sciences, medicine, and law.
KidsHealth This link opens in a new window
KidsHealth is the largest and most-visited site on the Web providing doctor-approved health information about children from before birth through adolescence. Created by The Nemours Foundation's Center for Children's Health Media, the award-winning KidsHealth provides families with accurate and up-to-date health information they can use.
L
Lab Tests Online This link opens in a new window
Lab Tests Online has been designed to help you, as a patient or family caregiver, to better understand the many clinical lab tests that are part of routine care as well as diagnosis and treatment of a broad range of conditions and diseases. If you are a medical professional, this site can serve as a quick reference tool or as a resource for keeping up with advances in laboratory science.
LawHelpNC This link opens in a new window
Find information and links about your legal rights, the law, the courts, legal forms and more.
LearningExpress Library Complete and PrepSTEP This link opens in a new window
Practice tests, interactive tutorials, and E-Books for students adult learners. Includes practice tests such as GED, SAT, GRE, TEAS, and supports those looking to improve core academic abilities, prepare for a high school equivalency test, apply for colleges, join the military, obtain occupational certification, find a job, change careers, become a US citizen and much more.
LGBTQ+ Source This link opens in a new window
LGBTQ+ Source contains all of the content available in LGBT Life as well as full text for more than 140 of the most important and historically significant LGBTQ+ journals, magazines and regional newspapers, plus full text for 150 monographs/books. The database includes comprehensive indexing and abstract coverage as well as a specialized LGBTQ+ Thesaurus containing over 10,000 terms.
Library, Information Science and Technology Abstracts (LISTA) with Full Text This link opens in a new window
It indexes more than 560 core journals, nearly 50 priority journals, and nearly 125 selective journals; plus books, research reports and proceedings. This database also contains full text for more than 330 journals and nearly 30 full-text monographs including Handbook of Electronic and Digital Acquisitions, Library/Vendor Relationships, Journals of the Century, etc. Subject coverage includes librarianship, classification, cataloging, bibliometrics, online information retrieval, information management and more. Coverage in the database extends back as far as the mid-1960s. The thesauri in Library, Information Science and Technology Abstracts™ with Full Text includes 6,800 terms, 2,700 of which are preferred terms. This database also includes author profiles. Customers can review information on 5,000 of the frequently indexed authors, such as which subject terms are most commonly applied to their articles, and in which publications the author has been published.
Literary Reference Center Plus This link opens in a new window
It is a comprehensive database that provides users with a broad spectrum of information on thousands of authors and their works across literary disciplines and timeframes. It has been specifically designed for public libraries, secondary schools, junior/community colleges and undergraduate research.
Literary Reference eBook Collection This link opens in a new window
This ebook reference collection offers a rich selection of eBook titles covering a broad range of literary-related subjects. Selections include literary criticism, study guides, and classics such as Emma, Dracula and Frankenstein.
Liverpool Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
Liverpool University Press has been publishing exceptional research since 1899, specializing in the modern languages, history, literature and visual culture. With Liverpool Scholarship Online (LSO), key works from this celebrated list are available online in subjects across the humanities and social sciences.
M
Manchester Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
Manchester Scholarship Online (MSO) is an essential, online research resource, providing access to hundreds of fascinating works of scholarship in subject areas across the humanities, social sciences, and law.
Manuscript Matcher This link opens in a new window
Find the best match for your manuscript, using Web of Science Core Collection indexed data from more than 24,000 journals across thousands of global publishers using EndNote’s Manuscript Matcher tool.
MarciveWeb Docs This link opens in a new window
MarciveWeb Docs is a general index to federal government documents published from 1976 to the present and is updated monthly. It indexes many types of documents including agency publications, annual reports, census data, congressional hearings, and statistical publications.
Mary Ann Liebert Online This link opens in a new window
Hundreds authoritative peer-reviewed journals published by Mary Ann Liebert, Inc. They are full-text searchable and linked to external bibliographic databases.
Mason OER Metafinder This link opens in a new window
The Mason OER Metafinder searches sixteen targets in real-time, returning the top several hundred or so relevant hits from each site. Because it is a real-time search, it takes a bit longer than searches of pre-indexed content; however, as compensation the results returned are absolutely up-to-the-minute for each search target. Additional results will trickle in as the search continues running and you begin examining your results.
MasterFile Premier This link opens in a new window
A database of full-text magazines, journals, and reference books, as well as photo, map, and flag files dating back to 1917. Titles include popular magazines like Consumer Reports, Car and Driver, Country Living, Elle, Essence, Good Housekeeping, Harper’s Bazaar, and Popular Mechanics alongside an expansive list of scholarly and trade publications.
MasterFILE Reference eBook Collection This link opens in a new window
This ebook reference collection offers a rich selection of eBook titles covering a broad range of general reference subjects. Topics include biography, history, careers, cooking, literature, genealogy, health, parenting, personal finance, politics, architecture, science, current events, social-emotional health, sports, and travel.
Materials Science Database This link opens in a new window
The collection contains materials science related full-text articles and the entire range of bibliographic records from the Materials Research Database.
MathSciNet This link opens in a new window
MathSciNet is a comprehensive database covering the world's mathematical literature from 1940 to the present.
MayoClinic.com This link opens in a new window
Health education to patients and the general public on topics such as autism, influenza, bipolar disorder, breast cancer, smoking, depression, and more.
MEDLINE This link opens in a new window
MEDLINE is the premier database of the U.S. National Library of Medicine. It contains over 12 million records of journal articles in all areas of the life sciences, with particular emphasis on biomedicine.
MedlinePlus This link opens in a new window
MEDLINEplus has extensive information for health professionals and consumers from the National Institutes of Health and other trusted sources on hundreds of diseases and conditions. There are also lists of hospitals and physicians, a medical encyclopedia and dictionaries, health information in Spanish, extensive information on prescription and nonprescription drugs, health information from the media, and links to thousands of clinical trials.
MedlinePlus Drugs, Herbs and Supplements This link opens in a new window
Guide to prescription and over-the-counter medications provided by the United States Pharmacopeia.
Mental Measurements Yearbook Series This link opens in a new window
Produced by the Buros Center for Testing at the University of Nebraska, this database provides a comprehensive guide to contemporary testing instruments. Designed for an audience ranging from novice test consumers to experienced professionals, the series contains information for evaluating test products in psychology, education, business and leadership.
Merck Manual Consumer Version This link opens in a new window
Explains disorders, their symptoms, how they're diagnosed, and how they can be prevented or treated.
Merck Manual Professional Version This link opens in a new window
Explains disorders, their symptoms, how they're diagnosed, and how they can be prevented or treated. For doctors and medical students.
Mergent Market Atlas This link opens in a new window
Entitles access to the following products: U.S. Company Data, International Company Data, U.S. Company Archives, International Company Archives, U.S. Annual Reports, International Annual Reports, U.S. Earnings Estimates, International Earnings Estimates, U.S. HSD Equity Pricing (20+ Years History), International HSD Equity Pricing (20+ Years History), Unadjusted Equity Pricing, Mergent Equity Research Reports, Factsheets Plus Institutional Holdings, Insider Trades, Expanded Long-Term Debt, Executive Biographies, Competitor Reports, Industry Reports (North America, Asia Pacific, Europe and Latin America).
Merlot This link opens in a new window
It provides access to curated online learning and support materials and content creation tools, led by an international community of educators, learners and researchers.
Merrick-Moore Community Stories
One of MMCDC’s goals is to preserve the history of the Merrick-Moore community and its residents and pass it along to upcoming generations. This platform will provide the entire Durham community with a better understanding of MMCDC’s mission of protecting the legacy of our ancestors, and their experiences that led to an undeniable impact on Durham, which will never be forgotten.

Michigan State University Digital and Multimedia Center This link opens in a new window
It offers both online and traditional media collections, designed to meet research needs across many different disciplines and subject areas. The Digital and Multimedia Center also serves both the Michigan State University community and the worldwide academic community through digitization projects that preserve scholarly resources.
Military & Government Collection This link opens in a new window
Designed to offer current news pertaining to all branches of the military, this database offers a thorough collection of military titles, trade publications, and news weeklies. Military & Government Collection includes abstracts and indexing for nearly 400 titles providing cover to cover full text for nearly 350. The database also includes full text for 245 pamphlets.
Minnesota Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
Founded in 1925, the University of Minnesota Press is among the most distinctive American university presses, with an international reputation for publishing boundary-breaking and intellectually rigorous work. In recent years, Minnesota’s publishing program has evolved to develop strengths in art and visual culture, architecture and urban studies, politics, and indigenous studies, in addition to being a leading publisher of social and critical theory, cultural studies, and race and ethnic studies.
Mississippi Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
Mississippi Scholarship Online (MSSO) gathers hundreds of University Press of Mississippi’s monographs from top scholars around the globe, making them available on a single, online library. The subject areas covered on MSSO span across the humanities and social sciences, covering diverse topics such as popular culture, African-American culture and history, the literature of the American South, comics studies, and more.
MIT OpenCourseWare This link opens in a new window
Unlocking knowledge, empowering minds. Free lecture notes, exams, and videos from MIT.
MIT Press Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
Containing hundreds of scholarly books, MIT Press Scholarship Online covers subjects spanning the sciences, medicine, social sciences, and humanities.
MLA Directory of Periodicals This link opens in a new window
The MLA Directory of Periodicals offers detailed information on over 5,500 journals, with 4,400 currently indexed in the International Bibliography. The detailed entries include editorial contact information, as well as frequency, circulation, subscription prices and submission guidelines.
MLA International Bibliography This link opens in a new window
The MLA International Bibliography offers a detailed bibliography of journal articles, books and dissertations. Produced by the Modern Language Association, the electronic version of the bibliography dates back to the 1920s and contains over 1.8 million citations from more than 4,400 journals & series and 1,000 book publishers. The indexed materials coverage is international and includes almost 60 titles from J-STOR’s language and literature collection as well as links to full text.
Morningstar Investing Center This link opens in a new window
Combines in one timely database all the fund and stock information necessary for in-depth research. In one database, you have comprehensive information on both mutual funds and stocks. And each fund and stock report is loaded with critical data and decisive analysis.
Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute This link opens in a new window
The Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute, is a platform for peer-reviewed, scientific open-access journals operated by MDPI AG, based in Basel, Switzerland. MDPI publishes over 110 diverse open access electronic journals.
Music and Performing Art This link opens in a new window
It is the broadest and most comprehensive online music resource that cross-searches all of following Alexander Street Press music databases.
Music Index This link opens in a new window
The Music Index ONLINE edition features over 1.4 million records. The searchable database is updated quarterly with about 100,000 new records added annually. Covering all styles and genres of music. It duly cites book reviews, obituaries, new periodicals, and news and articles about music, musicians, and the music industry.
Music Online - Listening This link opens in a new window
Music Online: Listening is a multidisciplinary collection of audiovisual content that touches on the curriculum needs of virtually every department. Music Online: Listening allows students and researchers alike to analyze unique and valuable content from over 500 producers and distributors around the world.
Music Online - Reference This link opens in a new window
Music Online: Reference brings together a variety of essential music reference materials, spanning the entire history of Western classical music, in a unified online database. Included are the authoritative reference titles The Garland Encyclopedia of World Music, Baker's Dictionary of Music, Baker's Bibliographical Dictionary of Musicians, and Baker's Student Encyclopedia of Music.
N
National Cancer Institute This link opens in a new window
Comprehensive descriptions of cancer research programs and clinical trials.
National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health This link opens in a new window
Explores complementary and alternative healing practices such as aromatherapy, acupuncture, and herbal medicine. Offers resources and pamphlets.
National Institute of Mental Health This link opens in a new window
Symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of various mental illnesses. Included are brochures and information sheets, reports, press releases, and fact sheets.
National Library of Medicine This link opens in a new window
Part of NIH, the world’s largest medical library offers information services for health practitioners, librarians and the general public.
Nature Journal This link opens in a new window
The world's best science and medicine on your desktop.
Nature Medicine
Nature Protocols
NAXOS Music Library - JAZZ This link opens in a new window
NAXOS Jazz database includes the Fantasy label, which has the world's best variety of Jazz repertoire and offers the very best in Blues and R & B. the database has over 23,00 tracks, 1,800 albums and 500 renowned artists.
NAXOS Music Library This link opens in a new window
The NAXOS Music Library is a comprehensive collection of Classical music. It includes the complete NAXOS and Marco Polo catalogues of over 130,000 tracks, and also includes other genres such as Jazz, Blues, World and Chinese music. It provides biographical information on composers or artists
NAXOS Sheet Music Library This link opens in a new window
The Naxos Music Library offers members over 45,000 sheet music titles, powered by the largest online digital sheet music store, FreeHandMusic.com. The library service delivers digital sheet music in all classical genres, spanning music from Medieval to the 21st century and composers from Bach to Arvo Part. You can download the music easily and print.
NAXOS Video Library This link opens in a new window
The world's leading Performing Arts DVD distributor brings you an extensive streaming video library of classical music performances, opera, ballet, live concerts and documentaries. Enjoy the world's greatest opera houses, ballet companies, orchestras and artists perform on demand! Once you subscribe, stream any video in the library from anywhere in the world with an internet connection.
NC Health Info This link opens in a new window
Online guide to quality health and medical information and local health services throughout North Carolina.
NC LIVE Databases This link opens in a new window
NC LIVE provides high-quality resources through North Carolina libraries, including full-text magazines, journals, and newspapers; downloadable E-Books and audiobooks; interactive resources, courses, and tools; and streaming videos in an expansive range of subject areas.
NCpedia This link opens in a new window
NCpedia provides information about the state, its history, people, government, and educational institutions.
NCWorks Online This link opens in a new window
Complete set of employment tools for job seekers in North Carolina. Search jobs, create résumés, find education and training.
New Journal of Physics This link opens in a new window
Full text online journal covering physical sciences.
New York Times This link opens in a new window
Full articles from the New York Times (1980-current).
News and Observer This link opens in a new window
Search more than 25 years of North Carolina history with the News and Observer Collection. Coverage from 1991 through today with full-color newspaper pages and individual articles, and content only published online.
NewsBank This link opens in a new window
News articles covering politics, economics, culture, business, science, and technology from Africa, Asia, Europe, the former Soviet Union, the Pacific Rim, Central and South America, and the Middle East. Every article is in English and is from over thousands translated broadcasts, news agency transmissions, wire services, newspapers, magazines and government documents. Coverage is from 1996 to present
Newspaper Source Plus This link opens in a new window
Provides abstracts and indexing 1995 to present for: The New York Times, Wall Street Journal (Eastern and Western editions), Christian Science Monitor and USA Today. Coverage includes everything except obituaries (exclusive of famous people), sports tables, ads/classifieds, stock prices, and weather. Includes many complete articles from the Christian Science Monitor from 1995 to present, and some complete articles from over 100 other U.S. newspapers.
Newswires This link opens in a new window
It is a full-text database that contains harvested news from the Associated Press. When a link to a news story is clicked, you are brought to the Detailed Record and HTML Full Text of the story.
North American Women's Letters and Diaries This link opens in a new window
Over 150,000 pages of published letters and diaries plus 4,000 pages of previously unpublished materials depicting the personal experiences of hundreds of women. Contains materials from Colonial times to 1950.
North Carolina This link opens in a new window
Provides comprehensive and online services for citizens, businesses, and state employees of North Carolina.
North Carolina Agricultural Statistics Service This link opens in a new window
Provides statistical information in table, map, and graph format on farm animals, crops, cash receipts, and weather.
North Carolina Central University Digital Yearbook This link opens in a new window
North Carolina Central University Digital Yearbook that is full text searchable.
North Carolina Central University Ex Umbra This link opens in a new window
Ex Umbra is a student-led online literary magazine at North Carolina Central University of Durham, NC. This site also includes some yearbooks from NC Central University and high schools at NC Durham County.
North Carolina Central University SGA Boycott Materials and Other Memory/Images This link opens in a new window
It includes NC Central University SGA Boycott materials, NC memory, images of NC, and NC Yearbooks.
North Carolina Central University Student Newspaper This link opens in a new window
The university student newspaper archive coverage from1927 to 2010
Newspaper titles: The campus echo and The eagle
North Carolina Curriculum This link opens in a new window
Specific DPI goals and objectives for classroom subjects and grade levels for North Carolina.
North Carolina Division of Public Health This link opens in a new window
Information on health precautions, links to local health departments, how to get birth certificates.
North Carolina Driver's Manual This link opens in a new window
Includes the full text of the current Department of Motor Vehicles driver's manual in English and Spanish, pictures of road signs, and the Newcomers Guide to Motoring in North Carolina.
North Carolina Education Directory This link opens in a new window
Contains addresses and phone numbers of every North Carolina public, federal or charter school and public school system, all employees of the Department of Public Instruction, contact information for education organizations, associations, North Carolina commissions, and educational material suppliers.
North Carolina Federation of Negro Women’s Clubs Journal Historic Issues This link opens in a new window
North Carolina Federation of Negro Women’s Clubs Journal that are searchable online. User could browser them by year.
North Carolina General Assembly This link opens in a new window
Includes links to find representatives and senators for both the NCGA and the US Congress by county, district, and Zip code.
North Carolina Newspapers This link opens in a new window
The electronic editions of record for valuable local and regional newspapers--all in one easy-to-search database. Each paper provides unique coverage of local and regional news, including companies, politics, sports, industries, cultural activities, and people in the community.
North Carolina Periodicals Index This link opens in a new window
Index of regional publications about a wide range of North Carolina-related topics.
North Carolina Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
North Carolina Scholarship Online (NCSO), home to hundreds of key works from UNC Press's distinguished publishing list, and contributing to a variety of subject areas.
North Carolina State Government Publications Collection This link opens in a new window
Informational brochures and pamphlets, reports (annual, biennial, statistical), serials (newsletters, magazines), handbooks, studies, and other information resources produced by state government.
NoveList Plus This link opens in a new window
A readers’ advisory resource that uses appeal factors and expert reviews to offer read-alike and listen-alike recommendations for fiction, nonfiction, and audiobooks.
Nursing and Allied Health Reference Source This link opens in a new window
Alternate Name(s) Formerly Social Work Reference Center
Created by a multi-specialty editorial team, Social Work Reference Center is a turnkey information resource for social workers and mental health professionals. It covers a big array of topics such as adolescent health, aging, end-of-life care, clinical social work and diversity. Content is organized in a way that makes it easy for users to get answers to questions quickly and easily.
NYU Press Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
NYU Scholarship Online (NYSO) encompasses ideas in subjects across the humanities and social sciences, from Religion and Law to Society and Culture.
O
OAlster This link opens in a new window
OAIster includes more than 50 million records that represent digital resources from more than 2,000 contributors.
OASIS This link opens in a new window
It is a search tool that aims to make the discovery of open content easier. OASIS currently searches open content from 78 different sources and contains 323,948 records.
Occupational Outlook Handbook This link opens in a new window
Provides overviews of occupations and projections for employment over the next decade, by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
OCLC FirstSearch This link opens in a new window
FirstSearch is a proven and highly trusted tool that empowers anyone to find the authoritative content they need in every format. It delivers the precise, full-featured searching that library staff and researchers value.
OER Commons This link opens in a new window
OER Commons is a public digital library of open educational resources. Explore, create, and collaborate with educators around the world to improve curriculum.
Open Education North Carolina Collection This link opens in a new window
Open Education North Carolina Collection contains open textbooks that have been curated for the most frequently taught courses across North Carolina's 2 and 4-year colleges and universities. Faculty can adopt these OER to save their students money and lower the overall cost of higher education.
Open Journal Matcher This link opens in a new window
This tool matches a draft abstract with the best-matching open resources online journals.
Open Library This link opens in a new window
A downloadable eBook collection with books contributed from libraries across the country. Create a username and password to borrow up to five books at a time.
Open Textbook Library This link opens in a new window
These textbooks have been reviewed by faculty from a variety of colleges and universities to assess their quality. They can be downloaded for no cost, or printed at low cost. All textbooks are either used at multiple higher education institutions; or affiliated with an institution, scholarly society, or professional organization.
OpenDOAR This link opens in a new window
OpenDOAR is the quality-assured global directory of academic open access repositories. It enables the identification, browsing and search for repositories, based on a range of features, such as location, software or type of material held.
OpenStax This link opens in a new window
Peer reviewed and open licensed textbooks that are developed by a research team.
OpenUNC This link opens in a new window
OpenUNC highlights and advances open research practices, publication methods, dissemination of research outputs, and educational resources. The website was created and is maintained by members of the University Library Advisory Council with the goal of helping open UNC research to the world.
Our State Magazine Collection This link opens in a new window
Search or browse Our State magazine, North Carolina's premier travel, food, and culture publication celebrating the best of life in the state. Every issue from 1933 to 2011 is online in the North Carolina Digital Collections, and articles and advertisements are full text searchable.
Ovid eBook Collection
Alternate Name(s) Collection includes clinical medicine, emergency medicine, primary care, nursing education, nutrition, public health, and nurse management.
Ovid Emcare This link opens in a new window
Premium nursing database ideal for practice, research or education. Includes access to nearly 5 million records, more than any other nursing database!
Ovid Journals w/LWW Nursing & Health Professions Premier
This collection provides over 80 of today's top nursing journals used by nurses, nursing students, and health professionals.
Ovid Medline® All This link opens in a new window
The world’s leading bibliographic source for biomedical scholarly literature and research—with easy linking to full-text journals.
Oxford Academic Books This link opens in a new window
It includes over 40,000 academic books. An essential resource for scholars, teachers and researchers, publishing research and scholarship across many subject areas.
Oxford Academic Journals This link opens in a new window
Explore articles from leading journals and online resources.
Oxford Bibliographies Online (OBO) This link opens in a new window
It is an entirely new research tool for the social sciences and humanities. A scholar-curated library of discipline-based subject modules, OBO is designed to help busy researchers find reliable sources of information in half the time by directing them to exactly the right chapter, book, website, archive, or data set they need for their research. Each entry is a selective guided tour through the key literature on a topic, receives multiple peer-reviews as well as Editorial Board approval, and is designed to facilitate a research experience with no dead ends. All citations are linked through to your collection via OpenURL, full-text via DOIs, or to the web via links to OCLC, WorldCat, and Google Books, allowing users to locate quickly full-text content directly from OBO. OBO is the ultimate collection development tool for librarians and time saving tool for students and researchers.
Oxford English Dictionary Online This link opens in a new window
The OED covers words from across the English-speaking world, from North America to South Africa, from Australia and New Zealand to the Caribbean. It also offers the best in etymological analysis and in listing of variant spellings, and it shows pronunciation using the International Phonetic Alphabet. Updated quarterly with between one and two thousand new and revised entries, OED Online offers unparalleled search of the ‘greatest continuing work of scholarship that this century has produced’ (Newsweek).
Oxford History of Western Music This link opens in a new window
The Oxford History of Western Music online offers an unmatched account of the evolution of Western classical music by one of the most prominent and provocative musicologists of our time, Richard Taruskin.
Oxford Music Online This link opens in a new window
Oxford Music Online comprises the full text of the New Oxford Dictionary of Music and Musicians, The New Oxford Dictionary of Opera, and the New Oxford Dictionary of Jazz. It provides written music examples, biographies, bibliographies, illustrations, sound archives and etc.
Oxford Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
Oxford Scholarship Online offers access to thousands of academic works from the celebrated scholarly list of Oxford University Press, covering subjects across the humanities, social sciences, sciences, medicine, and law.
P
Physics Teacher This link opens in a new window
It provides peer-reviewed materials to be used in the classrooms and instructional laboratories. It includes innovative physics demonstrations, new ways of doing lab experiments, ideas for presenting difficult concepts more clearly, suggestions for implementing newer technology into teaching, historical insights that can enrich the physics course and Book and film reviews.
Physics Today This link opens in a new window
Physics Today is your daily physics news and research source. It keeps its readers informed about science and its place in the world with authoritative feature articles, news stories, and analyses, as well as by providing a lively forum for the exchange of ideas.
Points of View Reference Center This link opens in a new window
It is a full-text database designed to provide students with a series of essays that present multiple sides of a current issue. It provides more than 280 topics, each with an overview (objective background/description), point (argument), counterpoint (opposing argument), and Critical Thinking Guide. Topics covered include: affirmative action, cloning, DNA profiling, HIV/AIDS status disclosure, immigration, Iraq, Israel & the Palestinians, Katrina and FEMA response, nuclear proliferation, separation of church and state, standardized testing, stem cell research, tax cuts, voting machines, and many more. It contains a balance of materials from all viewpoints, including more than 1,300 main essays, leading political magazines from both sides of the aisle, newspapers, radio & TV news transcripts, primary source documents and reference books. Each of the main essays includes links to related full-text articles hand-picked by the editor. The database also offers guides to debate, developing arguments and writing position papers. Additionally, this database contains the Video Encyclopedia of the 20th Century, providing students with a searchable collection of some of the most important social, political, and cultural moments of the 20th century.
Policy Press Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
Policy Press Scholarship Online (PPSO) provides access to hundreds of scholarly titles from the Bristol University Press, and its imprint Policy Press, in a variety of subject areas. Available as part of University Press Scholarship Online (UPSO), and covering a large range of topics in the social sciences, this collection of high-quality academic monographs is an essential research resource for students and academics alike.
Political Science This link opens in a new window
Political science, American government, policy studies.
Popular Music This link opens in a new window
Popular Music from Alexander Street contains a wide range of popular music from around the world, including hundreds of thousands of tracks from major genres in pop music, including alternative, country, Christian, electronic, hip-hop, metal, punk, new age, R&B, reggae, rock, soundtracks and many more.
PowerNotes This link opens in a new window
PowerNotes is a productivity tool that allows you to gather, organize, and track internet research easily and efficiently.
Princeton Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
Princeton University Press is committed to bringing scholarly ideas into larger conversations the world over, and to enriching worldviews through the publication and global distribution of meaningful books. As part of this commitment to PUP authors, Princeton Scholarship Online (PRSO) presents books across the humanities, social sciences, and sciences, from History to Religion, Anthropology to Economics, and Biology to Physics.
ProCitizen This link opens in a new window
Self-paced preparation course for the U.S. Citizenship naturalization test. Includes interactive drills, quizzes, and videos.
Project Muse This link opens in a new window
Provides online access to the full text of the John Hopkins University Press's 40+ scholarly journals in the humanities, social sciences and Mathematics.
Pronunciator This link opens in a new window
Pronunciator is a comprehensive language-learning solution that provides Interactive instruction in 87 languages. Users have unlimited access to hundreds of hours per week of online conversation with live, native speakers and teachers.
ProQuest Accounting, Tax and Banking Collection This link opens in a new window
Journal articles, reference reports, proceedings, and dissertations covering current news and topics as well as the trends and history influencing important accounting and tax issues.
ProQuest Asian and European Business Collection This link opens in a new window
This database provides information pertinent to the study of business and finance topics across Asia and Europe, including academic journals, newspapers, newswires, and magazines. Find information on companies, economies, markets, international trade, and overall business conditions and practices throughout these regions.
ProQuest Australia and New Zealand Database This link opens in a new window
This database provides ongoing full-text academic journals that are locally published by scholarly publishing organizations and educational institutions in Australia and New Zealand.
ProQuest Biological Science Database This link opens in a new window
Research on animal behavior, aquatic life and fisheries, biochemistry, ecology, plant science, toxicology, virology, microbiology, health and safety science, entomology, and more.
ProQuest Business Market Research Collection This link opens in a new window
This database contains company, industry, economic and geopolitical market research from three sources, including Hoover's Company Profiles, OxResearch from Oxford Analystica, and Snapshots.
ProQuest Career and Technical Education Database This link opens in a new window
Vocational information on technical topics, such as computing science, healthcare, building trades, auto mechanics, sales and retail, accounting, graphic design, and photography.
ProQuest Central This link opens in a new window
General reference database for over 175 subjects from magazines, journals and newspapers, including peer-reviewed and scholarly works.
ProQuest Computer Science Database This link opens in a new window
Scholarly journals, trade publications, and consumer titles covering topics such as artificial intelligence, automation, gaming, graphics, networking, security, database management, systems administration, information science and hardware
ProQuest Consumer Health Database This link opens in a new window
Magazines and journals covering consumer health topics, such as sports injuries, women's health, food and nutrition, midwifery, eye care and dentistry.
ProQuest Continental Europe Database This link opens in a new window
This database provides ongoing full-text academic journals that are locally published by scholarly publishing organizations and educational institutions in many European countries.
ProQuest Criminal Justice Database This link opens in a new window
Research on crime, its causes and impacts, legal and social implications, as well as litigation and crime trends.
ProQuest East and South Asia Database This link opens in a new window
This database provides ongoing full-text academic journals that are locally published by scholarly publishing organizations and educational institutions in many East Asian and South Asian countries.
ProQuest East Europe, Central Europe Database This link opens in a new window
This database provides ongoing full-text academic journals that are locally published by scholarly publishing organizations and educational institutions in East European and Central European countries.
ProQuest Education Database This link opens in a new window
Research on primary, secondary, and higher education, as well as special education, home schooling, adult education, and hundreds of related topics.
ProQuest Entrepreneurship Database This link opens in a new window
Information for entrepreneurs and researchers that includes business start-up plans, video clips, journals, business cases, and more.
ProQuest Health and Medical Collection This link opens in a new window
Clinical research plus consumer and health administration titles.
ProQuest Healthcare Administration Database This link opens in a new window
Research supporting professional healthcare management and healthcare administration.
ProQuest Historical Newspapers - Black Newspaper Collection This link opens in a new window
This historical newspaper collection provides genealogists, researchers and scholars with online, easily-searchable first-hand accounts and unparalleled coverage of the politics, society and events of the time.
ProQuest India Database This link opens in a new window
ProQuest Indian Journals is a comprehensive, multidisciplinary resource providing full-text, scholarly journals, all published in India.
ProQuest Latin America and Iberia Database This link opens in a new window
This database provides ongoing full-text academic journals that are locally published by scholarly publishing organizations and educational institutions in many Latin American countries, Spain, and Portugal.
ProQuest Learning - Literature This link opens in a new window
Full-text works of poetry, prose and drama, and secondary sources such as author biographies, literary criticisms, essays, reviews and interviews. Designed with schools and public libraries in mind.
ProQuest Library Science Database This link opens in a new window
This database allows you to search the full-text of leading library and information science journals. This collection provides full-text coverage of 125+ core titles.
ProQuest Linguistics Database This link opens in a new window
This database includes full-text journals and other sources in linguistics, covering all aspects of the study of language including phonetics, phonology, morphology, syntax and semantics.
ProQuest Main Search This link opens in a new window
The ProQuest main search platform includes all of the ProQuest databases that the library subscribed to. It contains scholarly journals, books, videos, audios, dissertations & theses, newspapers and more.
ProQuest Middle East and Africa Database This link opens in a new window
This database provides ongoing full-text academic journals that are locally published by scholarly publishing organizations and educational institutions in many Middle Eastern and African countries.
ProQuest Military Database This link opens in a new window
Articles from topics across all government and military branches, including international relations, political science, criminology, defense, aeronautics and space flight, communications, civil engineering, and more.
ProQuest Newsstand This link opens in a new window
News content from many national and international newspapers, newswires and selected news magazines.
ProQuest Nursing and Allied Health Database This link opens in a new window
Journals and dissertations covering nursing, allied health, and alternative and complementary medicine.
ProQuest Political Science Database This link opens in a new window
Political science and international relations journals, dissertations and working papers on topics such as comparative politics, political economy, international development, and environmental policy.
ProQuest Psychology Database This link opens in a new window
Clinical and social psychology articles on topics such as genetics, psychology of business and economics, communication, criminology, addiction, neurology, social welfare, and more.
ProQuest Public Health Database This link opens in a new window
This database allows you to search the core literature in the field of public health.
ProQuest Recent Newspapers - Barron's This link opens in a new window
Recent news – digitized newspapers
ProQuest Religion Database This link opens in a new window
Religious news and information, informative details on doctrines and philosophies, and scholarly reports on religious history and related archaeology.
ProQuest Research Companion This link opens in a new window
An award-winning, cloud-based information literacy solution that enables educators and librarians to guide students through research projects efficiently.
ProQuest Research Library This link opens in a new window
General reference database from business and political science to literature and psychology scholarly journals, trade publications, magazines, and daily news content, accessible to readers and researchers at every level.
ProQuest Science Database This link opens in a new window
Applied and general science articles covering topics such as global warming, alternative energy sources, robotic engineering, genetically modified food, and more.
ProQuest Social Science Database This link opens in a new window
Research covering topics in sociology, social work, anthropology, and politics.
ProQuest Sociology Database This link opens in a new window
Sociological and social work research including culture and social structure, history and theory of sociology, social psychology, substance abuse and addiction, and more.
ProQuest Telecommunications Database This link opens in a new window
Covers topics including computer applications, data communications and data transmission systems, electronic data processing, information science and information theory, radio and television.
ProQuest Turkey Database This link opens in a new window
This database provides ongoing full-text academic journals that are locally published by scholarly publishing organizations and educational institutions in Turkey.
ProQuest U.K. and Ireland Database This link opens in a new window
This database provides ongoing full-text academic journals that are locally published by scholarly publishing organizations and educational institutions in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland.
Psychiatry Online This link opens in a new window
The most sophisticated tool available for psychiatric information, built around resources for psychiatrists, mental health professionals, researchers, and students.
Psychotherapy.net Video Collection This link opens in a new window
It features a rich and diverse compilation of high quality training videos in the field of counseling, psychotherapy, and addiction. They cover a large range of modalities and theoretical orientations, with the majority of the videos showing therapists conducting single or multiple-session demonstrations, or clinical case consultations. Pre and post discussions or voice over commentary are available for most videos and add to their instructional value. A state-of-the-art streaming platform includes: captions, synchronized and searchable transcripts and clip-making ability. Downloadable instructors' manuals are available for many videos.
PsycINFO via EBSCOhost This link opens in a new window
American Psychological Association's (APA) renowned resource for abstracts of scholarly journal articles, book chapters, books, and dissertations, is the largest resource devoted to peer-reviewed literature in behavioral science and mental health. It contains over 3 million citations and summaries dating as far back as the 1600s with one of the highest DOI matching rates in the publishing industry. Ninety-nine percent of the covered material is peer-reviewed. The database also includes information about the psychological aspects of related fields such as medicine, psychiatry, nursing, sociology, education, pharmacology, technology, linguistics, anthropology, business, law, and others. Journal coverage, which spans from 1800s to present, includes international material selected from around 2,500 periodicals in dozens of languages.
Public Administration Abstracts This link opens in a new window
It includes bibliographic records covering essential areas related to public administration, including public administration research, public administration theory, and other areas of key relevance to the discipline.
Public Library of Science (PLOS) This link opens in a new window
215,000+ peer-reviewed articles are open to reuse and redistribute.
PubMed This link opens in a new window
Provides access to over 11 million citations from MEDLINE and additional life science journals. PubMed includes links to many sites providing full text articles and other related resources.
PubMed Central This link opens in a new window
It is a database provided by the National Library of Medicine. It provides full text searching of life science journals.
R
Recent Researches in Music Online This link opens in a new window
Alternate Name(s) RRIMO
It is critical performing editions of music in seven series—since its inception in 1962. The series fall into two basic categories: editions that span the history of Western music, and editions with ties to specific cultural milieus. Most editions in Recent Researches in Music are devoted to works by a single composer or in a single genre.
RefWorks This link opens in a new window
The new ProQuest RefWorks is a premier reference management service that supports the needs of students, faculty and librarians. With a refined user experience, full-text management, collaboration and other features you’d expect from a reference management solution, RefWorks enables students and faculty to have a more efficient and reliable process for producing the best research papers and grants.
Regional Accounts Data - Local Area Personal Income This link opens in a new window
Personal income and population summary estimates, detailed county annual tables of income and employment, wage and salary summary estimates.
Regional Business News This link opens in a new window
75 business journals, newspapers, and news wires covering all metropolitan and rural areas within the United States.
Representation Theory This link opens in a new window
This electronic-only journal is devoted to research in representation theory and seeks to maintain a high standard for exposition as well as for mathematical content.
RIA via Thomson Reuters This link opens in a new window
Full text federal, state, and local tax material Documents includes, tax codes, regulations, letter rulings, revenue rulings, cases, the Federal Tax Coordinator 2d., and tax journals
RILM Abstracts of Music Literature This link opens in a new window
It is a comprehensive, ongoing guide to publications on music from all over the world, is an indispensable tool for scholars, students, librarians, performers, teachers, and music lovers. RILM includes over 620,000 records; over 30,000 new records are added every year, covering all document types: articles, books, bibliographies, catalogues, dissertations, Festschriften, iconographies, critical commentaries to complete works, ethnographic recordings, conference proceedings, electronic resources, reviews, and more.
RKMA Online Books This link opens in a new window
It publishes 12 biennial business reference handbooks focused on marketing and the consumer marketplace. Each handbook includes market assessments and forecasts, sector trends, profiles of market leaders, and statistics. In addition to in-depth analyses, the handbooks include links to hundreds of websites for additional information.
S
SAGE Journals This link opens in a new window
SAGE Journals Online offers full text journals in Communication Studies, Criminology, Computer Science, Education, Health Sciences, Management and Organization Studies, Materials Science, Political Science, Psychology, Sociology, Business, Humanities, Science and Technology, and Social Work.
SAGE Research Methods This link opens in a new window
It is a research methods tool created to help researchers, faculty and students with their research projects. SAGE Research Methods links over 100,000 pages of SAGE’s renowned book, journal and reference content with truly advanced search and discovery tools. Researchers can explore methods concepts to help them design research projects, understand particular methods or identify a new method, conduct their research, and write up their findings. Since SAGE Research Methods focuses on methodology rather than disciplines, it can be used across the social sciences, health sciences, and more.
Scholarly Publishing Information Hub This link opens in a new window
Alternate Name(s) SPI-Hub
Enter up to 5 keywords describing the topic of your research into the SPI-Hub database to identify journals to publish your work. SPI-Hub consolidates information from multiple resources to easily compare the quality, scholarly importance, and editorial policies of several biomedical journals.
Science (1880-current) This link opens in a new window
The World's leading journal of original scientific research, global news, and commentary.
Science Citation Index Expanded This link opens in a new window
A multidisciplinary index to the journal literature of the sciences. It fully indexes 5,900 major journals across 150 scientific disciplines. Provides current information and retrospective data from 1945 forward. Some of the disciplines covered include: Agriculture, Neuroscience, Biochemistry, Biology, Biotechnology, Chemistry, Physics, and Mathematics.
ScienceDirect This link opens in a new window Featured
Provides scientific, technical and medical (STN) research that offers more than 1,100 journals across sixteen fields of science, including the social sciences.
Scientific Electronic Library Online (SCIELO) This link opens in a new window
It provides scientific online journals’ contents. Journals are organized in national and thematic collections. Each collection is managed by a nationally recognized research organization. Selection of journals to be indexed in and discontinued of a collection is of entire responsibility of each collection management organization, usually with the support of a scientific advisory committee.
SciFinder Scholar This link opens in a new window Featured
A great diversity of research from many scientific disciplines, including biomedical sciences, chemistry, engineering, materials science, agricultural science, and more.
Note: As a first time user, you must register (https://scifinder.cas.org/registration/index.html?corpKey=1C2E4BECX86F350ABX79FF3F9814ED03A25C) using your NCCU e-mail to create an account. Then you will be able to sign in and use web version of SciFinder Scholar. OS/Browser recommendations and requirements can be found: https://www.cas.org/products/scifinder/system-requirements-web
SCIMago Journal and Country Rank This link opens in a new window
SCIMago Journal and Country Rank lists journals by category and you can examine their rank within a given field.
Search TRLN This link opens in a new window
Joint catalog of the Triangle Research Libraries Network: Duke University, North Carolina Central University, North Carolina State University, and University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

If you find a book you need at another TRLN library, you can choose to travel to that library and borrow the book yourself or request it through InterLibrary Loan.
SIRS Discoverer This link opens in a new window
Designed specifically for elementary and middle school students, SIRS Discoverer offers articles, nonfiction books, images, activities, and websites curated for educational relevance, age appropriateness, and readability.
SIRS Issues Researcher This link opens in a new window
Research the pros and cons of current issues and enduring social issues through full-text articles, multimedia, primary sources, government documents and reference materials.
Smithsonian Global Sound for Libraries This link opens in a new window
Smithsonian Global Sound for Libraries, produced in partnership with Smithsonian Folkways Recordings, is a virtual encyclopedia of the world's musical and aural traditions. The collection provides educators, students, and interested listeners with an unprecedented variety of online resources that support the creation, continuity, and preservation of diverse musical forms.
Social Explorer This link opens in a new window
Social Explorer provides easy access to demographic information about the United States. We provide thousands of interactive data maps going back to 1790.
Social Science Citation Index This link opens in a new window
A multidisciplinary index to the journal literature of the social sciences. It fully indexes more than 1,725 journals across 50 disciplines. It also indexes individually selected, relevant items from over 3,300 of the world's leading scientific and technical journals. Provides access to current information and retrospective data from 1956 forward.
Social Work Online This link opens in a new window
Social Work Online is a first-of-its-kind resource that pairs recently published social work textbooks along with compelling documentaries clinical demonstration videos, and engaging lectures that illustrate the complex and challenging realities social work students will face as practitioners. The content is structured around twelve of the most important topics in the social work curriculum.
SocIndex with Full Text This link opens in a new window
SocINDEX™ with Full Text provides the same comprehensive indexing and abstracts as SocINDEX™, as well as full text for 241 "core" journals dating as far back as 1895, and full text coverage of 72 "priority" journals. This database also includes full text for 545 books and monographs, and full text for 6,711 conference papers.
SPORTDiscus with Full Text This link opens in a new window
This database is the premier source of literature for sports and sports medicine studies, providing full-text content from many respected journals. It is an essential tool for health professionals, researchers and students, providing extensive coverage in the areas of fitness, health and sport studies.
SpringerLink Journals This link opens in a new window
Providing researchers with search to millions of scientific documents.
Standard and Poor's NetAdvantage This link opens in a new window
It is a comprehensive, professional source of proprietary analysis on industry trends, corporate activities, and investments. For non-business students, the service includes a Financial Education section with tools for understanding personal finance. S&P NetAdvantage, along with other S&P resources, is a core service used at many of the leading investment firms, corporations, government agencies, and law offices.
Stanford Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
Stanford Scholarship Online represents the full range of Stanford University Press’s award-winning publications in the humanities, social sciences, and law. Stanford's long-established presence in Literature, History, Jewish Studies, and Area Studies such as Asian Studies and Latin American studies are fully evident on Stanford Scholarship Online, as are the rapidly developing programs in Middle East Studies, Law, and Business.
StatBank This link opens in a new window
Statistics covering topics related to demographics, voting, environment, health, employment and social issues for all 50 U.S. states and over 200 countries of the world compiled from more than 350 government agencies, associations, and organizations. Graphs are available for some topics. Use for tracking trends and numeric reporting of current issues and events.
State Center for Health Statistics This link opens in a new window
Health-related research and reports and a collection of health statistics.
State Data Center This link opens in a new window
The site includes population, economic, and income data as well as county profiles and rankings.
State Demographics This link opens in a new window
The State Demographics unit provides state, county, and municipal population estimates and projections by year, age, race, and sex. The annual estimates of the population of North Carolina counties and municipalities are used in the distribution of state shared revenues to local governments. County and state population projections, available by age, race (white/other) and sex, are used for long range planning.
Statista This link opens in a new window
It is a holistic and multidisciplinary database. Data aggregation and research platform covering many markets, industries, and societal topics.
Statistical Abstract of the United States This link opens in a new window
An authoritative and comprehensive summary of statistics on the social, political, and economic conditions of the United States.
Swank Digital Campus This link opens in a new window New
Swank Digital Campus provides access to academic streaming media.
T
Taylor and Francis eBook Collection This link opens in a new window
It is an extensive collection of online research within a single destination. The platform features eBooks across many disciplines, including Science, Technology, Engineering, Medical, Humanities, and Social Sciences.
Taylor and Francis Online This link opens in a new window
Search and explore quality, peer-reviewed journal articles published under the Taylor and Francis.
Teacher Reference Center This link opens in a new window
This index of over 260 titles from the most popular teacher and administrator trade journals, periodicals, and books, provides coverage on key education topics such as Assessment, Continuing Education, Current Pedagogical Research, Curriculum Development, Instructional Media, Language Arts, Literacy Standards, Science and Mathematics, more for K-12 Teachers and Librarians.
Teaching Positions in North Carolina This link opens in a new window
Links to the information needed to apply for a teaching job in North Carolina.
Teaching Professor This link opens in a new window
The Teaching Professor reflects the changing needs of today's college faculty and the students they teach. Featuring more articles, more resources, and more depth.
ThomasNet This link opens in a new window
Search ThomasNet to find manufacturers, distributors and service providers - from Actuators to Zirconium and everything in between.
Transactions of the American Mathmathical Society This link opens in a new window
This journal is devoted to research articles in all areas of pure and applied mathematics.
Transparent Language Online This link opens in a new window
Transparent Language Online provides a fun, effective, and good experience for learners of every level looking to build their listening, speaking, reading, and writing knowledge in a foreign language. Combining robust courses, supplemental vocabulary, extensive grammar resources, and mobile apps, Transparent Language Online is the most complete language-learning system. With over 110 languages to choose from, including English for speakers of over 30 languages, there is something for every learner.
Twentieth Century African-American Poetry This link opens in a new window
A collection of poetry written by the most important and influential African American poets of the twentieth century. Presently includes over 6,000 poems from over 100 complete editions by 46 poets. Indexed from 1901 to 1998.
Twentieth Century American Poetry This link opens in a new window
A database of modern and contemporary American poetry from the early twentieth century to the present. Presently includes 36,000 poems drawn from 460 volumes by 217 poets.
Twentieth Century English Poetry This link opens in a new window
Containing tens of thousands of works by 288 poets, Twentieth-Century English Poetry provides an overview of poetry written in the 20th century by both established and emerging writers.
U
University Press Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
It offers 32,000+ titles available in 31 subject areas, from nine leading university presses. Aggregating monograph content from leading university presses, it offers an unparalleled research tool, making disparately published scholarship easily searchable, highly discoverable, and fully cross-searchable via one online platform. It includes
Oxford Scholarship Online
British Academy Scholarship Online
Cairo Scholarship Online
California Scholarship Online
Chicago Scholarship Online
Columbia Scholarship Online
Cornell Scholarship Online
Edinburgh Scholarship Online
Florida Scholarship Online
Fordham Scholarship Online
Hawai'i Scholarship Online
Hong Kong Scholarship Online
Illinois Scholarship Online
Kentucky Scholarship Online
Liverpool Scholarship Online
Manchester Scholarship Online
Minnesota Scholarship Online
Mississippi Scholarship Online
MIT Press Scholarship Online
North Carolina Scholarship Online
NYU Press Scholarship Online
Policy Press Scholarship Online
Princeton Scholarship Online
Stanford Scholarship Online
Yale Scholarship Online
US Newsstream This link opens in a new window
News content from many national and international newspapers, newswires and selected news magazines.
USA This link opens in a new window
Search current and archived coverage of issues, events, people, government, sports and more with the largest collection of full-text U.S. newspapers. Includes staff-written articles, obituaries, editorials, announcements, real estate and other sections.
USA Source Locator Map This link opens in a new window
NewsBank provides a comprehensive collection of reliable news sources covering a great array of topics and issues. Refine by source location.
V
Value Line This link opens in a new window
A comprehensive reference that has useful information for virtually every investor. In breadth of coverage it is encyclopedic, covering some 1,700 equity issues. Every week, about 135 stocks in seven or eight industries are covered.
Vault This link opens in a new window
It provides in-depth intelligence on what it's really like to work in an industry, company or profession--and how to position yourself.
Violence and Abuse Abstracts This link opens in a new window
It includes bibliographic records covering essential areas related to violence and abuse, including family violence, sexual assault, emotional abuse, and other areas of key relevance to the discipline. The index contains more than 20,000 records that are carefully selected from the most important sources within the discipline.
W
Wall Street Journal This link opens in a new window
Full articles from the Wall Street Journal (1981-current).
WARC This link opens in a new window
WARC helps you to plan, create and deliver more effective marketing.
Washington Post This link opens in a new window
Full articles from The Washington Post (1996-current).
Web News This link opens in a new window
EBSCO's Web News provides near real-time access to thousands of top news feeds from around the globe. This collection includes over 14,000 feeds covering a range of business and general news topics. End users can immediately access the full text of the web content, by following the link in the record.
Web of Science This link opens in a new window
ISI Web of Science consists of five high-quality databases containing information gathered from thousands of scholarly journals in every area of research - Science Citation Index Expanded, Social Sciences Citation Index, and Arts and Humanities Citation Index.
WestlawNext This link opens in a new window
Authoritative content for both primary law and exclusive secondary law titles. Attorney-editor enhancements from a team of bar-admitted attorneys who analyze, categorize, and summarize the law to help ensure the information is not only accurate, but also easy to find and interpret.
Wiley Journal Finder This link opens in a new window
Enter the title and abstract of your manuscript into the Wiley Journal Finder to locate relevant Wiley journals.
Wiley Online Library This link opens in a new window
Wiley Online Library is a web-based service providing more than 180 wiley journals in science, technology, medicine, business and law. Online full text coverage currently extends back to 1997.
Wiley Online Library UBCM Online Books This link opens in a new window
It combine quality content with over 20,000 scholarly and professional books, dictionaries, companions and landmark book series. Premier titles from the most celebrated scientists, award-winning authors and renowned researchers in the life, health and physical sciences, social sciences and humanities.
Women Health This link opens in a new window
Resource on women's health topics: pregnancy, body image, HIV/AIDS, girls' health, heart health, menopause, mental health, quitting smoking, and domestic violence.
WorldCat This link opens in a new window
Catalog of books and other materials in libraries around the world.
WorldCat Local Catalog - Search UNC System Libraries and Beyond This link opens in a new window
Search library materials from North Carolina Central University, UNC system libraries and beyond.
Y
Yale Scholarship Online This link opens in a new window
Yale University Press publishes key works that contribute to a global understanding of human affairs. Their titles aim to further scholarly investigation, advance interdisciplinary inquiry, stimulate public debate, educate inside and outside of the classroom, and enhance cultural life. Yale Scholarship Online (YSO) makes these important academic works available online, and, for the first time, in a highly-sophisticated XML format.
Your Journals@Ovid This link opens in a new window
YourJournals@Ovid is a subset of the larger Journals@Ovid database and is limited to only the journals to which NCCU Shepard Library subscribes. YourJournals@Ovid was created for situations when a user wants to see only the citations to what they have. In addition to the searchable index, a user has the ability to browse by journal title or by journal subject, and then by issue and table of contents, which link to full articles. Covered subjects are Clinical Medicine, Behavioral & Social Sciences, Life Sciences, Nursing, Physical Sciences & Engineering, and PsycARTICLES. There is also a feature that allows for finding articles which cite a particular reference.
Z
Zotero This link opens in a new window
Citation tool to help you collect, organize, cite, and share research.

Liaison Librarians by Department
The library's liaison program links a member of the library with an academic department or school. The liaison librarians do the following:

Communicate with the department's faculty and students
Provide information to faculty about library services and collections
Coordinate the selection and ordering of books, periodicals and other materials
Provide information services in the department's discipline or subject area
Facilitate and promote the use of the library's instructional program
Please do not hesitate to contact your library liaison if you have questions about the library and its collections and services. Please submit our electronic form if you would like to suggest a title for purchase.