Looking for Help?
Advising
How do I schedule an appointment with my advisor?
Making appointments is essential to making sure you get the most out of your time since University College advisors value it. Appointments for academic advising are available from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, and advisors are located in Alexander Dunn Building. Schedule an appointment.
How do I find my advisor’s name and contact information?
Each student is assigned an advisor within the first month of courses each semester. Please visit Navigate to schedule an academic advising appointment with your assigned academic advisor.
How do I add/drop a class?
How to add: You may add a class during the first two weeks of fall and spring classes without the approval of your instructor. Please contact your academic advisor to add the class. Students are permitted to add up to 18 credit hours. Contact your academic advisor for approval. 
How to drop: You may drop a class during the first two weeks of fall and spring classes without the approval of your instructor. Please contact your academic advisor to drop a class. All full-time students must be registered in at least 12 credit hours to remain a full-time student. 
How do I withdraw from a course? What are the deadlines?
After the first two weeks of the semester, you can submit a course withdrawal form to be removed from the course. Unlike the add/drop period, this course will remain on your transcript with a final grade of "WC." This will not impact your GPA but will add to your attempted credit hours. Speak to your advisor about withdrawing from a course, as this may impact your degree progression.
For Financial Aid purposes, if you withdraw from a course after the census date, it is a “withdrawal.” You will be charged for “withdrawn” courses, and withdrawals can lead to violations of the Financial Aid Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) Policy. If you withdraw from all your courses or stop attending classes before completing more than 60% of the semester or earn all non-passing grades, you may have to repay all or a portion of the ﬁnancial aid that you received. A student who withdraws from the semester (regardless of the reason, i.e., medical, extenuating circumstances, suspension, etc.) may have their financial aid adjusted through the Return of Title IV funds process. The return of Title IV funds may result in the student having an outstanding balance owed to North Carolina Central University.
Deadlines for withdrawing from a course typically occur in Fall and Spring about one month prior to the end of the semester and earlier for Summer Sessions. Check with your advisor as soon as possible to find the deadline.
After speaking to your academic advisor, access the withdrawal form.
How do I find my holds? What is a hold?
A hold is a restriction on your account that could prevent you from registering for courses. Examples of holds preventing registration include an Accounts Receivable Hold (bill due to university), an Immunization Hold (missing immunization records) or an Admissions Hold (missing high school transcripts).
To find out if you have any holds, go to myEOL and log in.
•	Select Banner 9
•	Select Student Self-Service
•	Select Account Information
•	Look for Holds in the top right corner
•	Click on Holds and click the dropdown arrow next to the hold to read more information
How do I resolve my hold?
•	Find your hold (Please see previous question).
•	Contact the office associated with the hold to learn how to resolve your hold. Holds could be resolved by retrieving paperwork, paying a bill, or additional requirements.
•	Examples of offices related to Holds include:
o	Accounts Receivable Hold: Contact Student Accounting
o	Admissions Hold: Contact Undergraduate Admissions 
o	Immunization Hold: Contact Student Health Services
o	Transcript Hold: Contact Office of the Registrar
How do I transfer credits from another institution?
After applying, please have official copies of your transcripts sent to North Carolina Central University (NC Central University) from your previously attended institutions. Your school’s registrar’s office may send official transcripts either by mail or electronically.
Electronic
Please email to admissions@nccu.edu.
Regular Mail
North Carolina Central University
The Office of Undergraduate Admissions  
P.O. Box 19717  
Durham, NC 27707
Once a transfer student has been accepted to NC Central University, has paid their enrollment fee, and has registered for orientation, we will begin the transfer credit evaluation process. Evaluations are completed within 7–14 business days. 


How do I find the curriculum and requirements for my major?
Work with your University College academic advisor. They can help you establish an academic plan for graduation. Advisors can provide you with a typical four-year plan per major.
When do I transition or level up to my major department for advising?
Once students reach 52 or more earned hours at NCCU or through a combination of transfer credits, they are eligible to level up or move to their department for advising. Each Fall and Spring, University College advisors email students at 52 or more earned hours to help students navigate this process. University College also celebrates students who are leveling up through a Level Up Ceremony each fall and spring semester. Invitations are sent out via email.
How do I get an advising override?
An advising override refers to a request to enroll in a course or class that is usually restricted or requires specific prerequisites. Students may need an override due to various reasons, such as a conflict with another class, an error during registration, or other extenuating circumstances. Speak with your academic advisor or graduation specialist. They are the only people who can provide academic overrides.
How do I withdraw from the university?
To officially withdraw from North Carolina Central University (all courses in a semester), a student must see their academic advisor or graduation specialist.  It is highly recommended that students who choose to withdraw visit the Office of Scholarships and Student Aid as well as the Office of Student Accounting to ensure they understand what will happen with their financial aid and their bill. Information about refunds are available at the following links:
•	https://www.nccu.edu/ssa/withdrawal#institutions-return-of-funds
•	https://www.nccu.edu/withdrawal-university
Tutoring and Supplemental Instruction Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
How do I schedule an appointment with a 24/7 Upswing tutor?
1.	Visit nccu.upswing.io or Upswing via myEOL.
2.	Under "Select School," choose North Carolina Central University.
3.	Click “Log In Now!"
4.	You will be redirected to the NCCU login page.
5.	Log in using your NCCU credentials.
6.	Click the "Home" tab.
7.	Select "Meet with a Tutor."
8.	Under "Search for a Subject or Coach," either type in the course for which you need tutoring and select the tutor or search for the tutor you would like to meet with.
9.	Find the date and time frame in which you are available and once it is highlighted blue, choose "Select a time."
10.	Choose the subject, time, and duration.
11.	Click "Schedule."
12.	You will receive an email confirmation. When your appointment time comes, log in to nccu.upswing.io. You can join the appointment from your home page.

Who can utilize the services offered in Tutoring and Supplemental Instruction (TSI)?
While our focus is first- and second-year students, we welcome all undergraduates, graduate students, and professional students.

What services do you provide for faculty and staff?
While our focus is the first- and second-year students, we welcome all undergraduates, graduate students, and professional students. If you are faculty and/or staff and fit this criteria, our services are available to you.
Does TSI offer assignment review?
While this is a service offered in Upswing, we recommend all writing assignments be reviewed in the Writing and Speaking Studio.
Does TSI help with résumés and cover letters?
We refer those who need help with professional job search documents to the office of Career Services.
What will I do during my tutoring session?
 The tutor will answer specific questions or provide other examples like your homework to help guide you through the process. Tutors will not complete homework for you or “correct” papers.
What should I bring to my session?
•	The assignment (if applicable)
•	A draft of your work (if you have one)
•	Questions about your assignment, course material, exam, etc.
•	A positive attitude and an open mind
•	A mask (preferred if in-person)

What should I do if I am running late for my appointment?
Please message the tutor through Upswing or email your tutor directly to let us know you will be late.
What should I do if I no longer need my appointment?
Please message the tutor through Upswing or email your tutor directly to let us know you will be late.
What happens if I cannot log in to my online session?
Call the TSI office or email your tutor or the director of TSI to help troubleshoot your technical issue. 

How can I meet with a tutor without an appointment?
Tutors in the Academic Success Center are available for walk-in appointments during times indicated on their posted schedule.
The STEM Learning Center provides drop-in tutoring in 3238 Mary E. Townes Science Complex and is open Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

Writing and Speaking Studio FAQs
How do I schedule an appointment with the Writing and Speaking Studio?
You must visit the Writing and Speaking Studio in Taylor Education, room 102, or call us at 919-530-6035 to be assisted by a member of our professional staff.
How Can I Schedule an Appointment?
Go to Navigate
 Where is the Writing and Speaking Studio located?
We welcome undergraduates, graduate students and professional students from all programs and at any stage of the writing process. We also welcome faculty, staff and NCCU alumni who require our services.
We are located in the Taylor Education Building, Room 102. The Taylor Education Building is beside the Student Services Building (Financial Aid Services location), near the steps that are between the Track and Football Field; look for a waving red flag that says “Writing & Speaking Studio."
Who comes to the Writing Studio?
We welcome undergraduates, graduate students and professional students from all programs and at any stage of the writing process. We also welcome faculty, staff and NCCU alumni who require our services.
What services do you provide for faculty and staff?
We offer focused writing workshops and informational presentations about our services to your class or organization. With prior arrangement, we can accommodate required sessions for entire classes. The director also offers curriculum and assignment consultations for faculty from any discipline who wish to enhance writing instruction. Please see our Helpful Links section to complete the new faculty request and requirement form.
Why is it called the “Writing and Speaking Studio”?
The Studio’s founder recognized that writing (and speaking), like any art, is a work in-progress; therefore, our Studio serves as a safe space for people to perfect that work and craft their voice, to create and reflect. It’s a space that acknowledges the capacity for continual improvement and growth in our students and ourselves.
Does the Writing Studio help with résumés and cover letters?
We tend to refer those who need help with professional job search documents to the office of Career Services.
Can I just drop off or send in my paper and get the edits back later?
No. We are not an editing service. Also, unless you are faculty, we do not recommend asynchronous consultations (also known as e-tutoring). Students are expected to actively participate in a real-time session with our consultants.
What will I do during my Writing Studio session?
During any given Writing Studio session, you will speak one-on-one with a consultant about your writing. You should not expect your consultant to do the writing for you or fix the changes you need. You will collaborate with the consultant to improve the work you’ve done.
What should I bring to my session?
•	The assignment sheet, instructions, writing or speech prompt or rubric
•	A draft of your work (if you have one)
•	Questions about your writing or speech
•	A positive attitude and an open mind
•	A mask (preferred if in-person)
 What should I do if I am running late to my appointment?
Call us or email your consultant directly to let us know you will be late.
What should I do if I no longer need my appointment?
Please call the Writing and Speaking Studio to let someone know if you no longer need your appointment or wish to cancel or reschedule. Furthermore, you can also cancel/reschedule via Navigate. You may also email your consultant directly to let them know.
What happens if I cannot log in to my online session?
Call the Writing and Speaking Studio to help troubleshoot your technical issue. Please call within the first 10-15 minutes of your session to ensure efficiency. If consultant is late, allow a 10-minute grace period before calling.
My instructor is requiring me to work with the Studio, and I need a confirmation. What do I need to do?
Provide those details (instruction, course info, and the professor’s name) when booking the appointment via personal assistance or via Navigate in the notes/details section. After your appointment, your consultant will send you a PDF of your completed confirmation to email to your instructor or upload to Canvas. If you do not receive one, please email your consultant or call the Writing and Speaking Studio. Is the Writing & Speaking Studio the same as tutoring services? No, Tutoring services are provided under the department of Tutoring and Supplemental Instruction / The Academic Success Center: https://www.nccu.edu/university-college/tsi
Is the Writing and Speaking Studio the same as tutoring services?
No, tutoring services are provided under the department of Tutoring and Supplemental Instruction/the Academic Success Center. Learn more about tutoring at NCCU.
Grades
How do I find my grades during the semester?
•	Current grades are available on Canvas (NCCU’s Learning Management System)
•	Log into Canvas with your NCCU credentials
•	On the main page, scroll down and look for Check Grades on the bottom right side of the page
How do I find my early warning (4 week) or midterm (8 week) grades from my faculty members?
Early warning and midterm grades are provided by faculty members to indicate if students are making a D or F in the course. These grades are not required from professors. If a student does not have an early warning or midterm grade, this does not mean they have an A, B, or C in the course. Students are expected to keep up with their own grades (see question for "How do I calculate my grade?:")
To find your midterm grades, go to myEOL and log in:
•	Select Banner 9
•	Select Student Self Service
•	Select View Grades
•	Select the term of the courses you are seeking at the top
•	Select a Course Level
•	Select Undergraduate
•	Look for the Midterm Grade column
How do I find my final grade/s?
Final grades are typically available about one week after final exam ends as well as for previous semesters.
To find your final grades, go to MyEOL and log in:
•	Select Banner 9
•	Select Student Self Service
•	Select View Grades
•	Select the term of the courses you are seeking at the top
•	Select a Course Level
•	Select Undergraduate
How do I calculate my grade?
•	Review the syllabus for the course
•	Look for the grading weights per assignment or exam
•	Weights of grades influence how heavily an assignment or exam count towards a student’s final grade. For example, if a course was graded on 4 exams alone for a semester, then each exam could weigh 25% to be equally counted or they could have different weights such as 10%, 20%, 25% & 45%.
•	To calculate the grade for the course, find the grade for each assignment and multiply it by the percentage of the grade. An example is below.
o	Three Exams
	Exam 1: Grade is 80, Weight is 20%
	Exam 2: Grade is 75, Weight is 20%
	Exam 3: Grade is 90, Weight is 20%
o	Four Assignments
	Assignment 1: Grade is 90, Weight is 10%
	Assignment 2: Grade is 80, Weight is 10%
	Assignment 3: Grade is 70, Weight is 10%
	Assignment 4: Grade is 60, Weight is 10%
o	Calculate the grade times the percentage. For the first exam, 80 X 0.2=16
o	Add all these totals together
o	In this scenario, the totals added would be 16+15+18+9+8+7+6=79, which is the grade
How do I find my unofficial transcript?
Unofficial transcripts are available to current students to demonstrate enrollment, including grades and transfer credit, but students are encouraged to check with the business or organization to see if they need an unofficial or official transcript. Unofficial transcripts are printed by the student.
To find your unofficial transcript, go to myEOL and log in:
•	Select Banner 9
•	Select Student Records
•	Select View Transcript
•	Right-click on the page and select Print or Save as PDF
How do I order an official transcript?
Official transcripts are sent by NCCU’s Office of the Registrar and can be sent digitally. Learn more about ordering a transcript.

Financial Aid and Billing
How do I pay my bill?
Visit Student Accounting to learn more.
How do I apply for financial aid?
Complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) electronically at https://studentaid.gov.
How do I find scholarships?
Visit https://www.nccu.edu/ssa/scholarships for more information.
How do I see my student bill (e-bill)?
Individuals who have access to their student account via myEOL should follow this method:
•	Access the myEOL homepage at https://myeol.nccu.edu.
•	Select "Banner SSB" under Administrative & Academic Services.
•	Select the "Student" tab.
•	Select "View E-Bill."

How do refunds work?
The Student Accounts Office serves as the central collection center for student accounts receivables. The office is responsible for verifying that university billing, collection, and accounting procedures for student tuition, fees, and related charges are in compliance with federal and state statutes, as well as university policies. View more information on refunds.  
If you are withdrawing from the university, housing and dining fee refund information is available here: https://myeol.nccu.edu/kb/article/refunds
How do I start a payment plan?
Please visit Student Accounting in the bottom floor of the Shepard Administration Building for more details or visit our payment plan page.
University Resources
How do I find community service opportunities?
Visit Get Connected.
How do I track my community service hours?
Visit this resource explaining how to track community service hours.
How do I sign up for on-campus housing starting for the following year?
How do I sign up for on-campus housing starting for the following year?
Please find your respected population (e.g., new first-time freshmen, transfer students, continuing and readmitted students, second degree seeking, or themed housing and special populations) at the bottom of each Fall, Spring, or Summer Housing page.
Scroll to Applying for Housing and click on your desired semester on the Residential Life page: https://www.nccu.edu/dsa/services/residential-life.
How do I request a roommate?
View more information on establishing a roommate group.
Establishing a Roommate Group
Description
Students can select room/suitemates by establishing a roommate group. Roommate groups can be created by students who have completed an application for that respective application period. Students can only be invited to join roommate groups if they have completed an application for that respective period. Currently, students can create a roommate group for one of the three periods below:
1.	Fall Housing Application
2.	SOAR Summer On-Campus Experience
3.	Summer Housing
Spring applicants are assigned based on room availability and therefore do not have the opportunity to select roommates. All roommate group periods are independent of one another. If a student desires to request the same roommate for the Fall semester as they had during the summer, they will need to establish two separate roommate groups.
When establishing a roommate group, the student will have the opportunity to create a group of two or a group of four.
Below is more information on roommate groups for the specific periods above. 
Title
Fall Housing Roommate Groups
Description
This selection is for students who have completed the housing application for the Fall semester. Students can only establish roommate groups with other students who have completed the Fall Housing application. Students must be within the same application type. Students will fall within one of four application types.
Application Type	Description
New first-time freshman	Any current high school senior who has not attended college since graduating from high school.
Continuing and transfer student with less than 60 credit hours	Any continuing student who has completed less than 60 credit hours at the end of the Spring semester.
Any new transfer student who is transferring less than 60 credit hours into the university.
Continuing and transfer student with more than 60 credit hours	Any continuing student who has completed more than 60 credit hours at the end of the Spring semester.
Any new transfer student that is transferring more than 60 credit hours into the university.
Graduate and law students	Any graduate or law student regardless of year.
A student’s application type is displayed in the welcome section of the respective roommate group period
New First-Time Freshmen
•	Roommate groups must be created no later than two days before the expected assignment date outlined on the Fall Housing application schedule. 
•	Once you establish a roommate group and all invitees have accepted their invitations, you will be assigned based on the building preferences of the student who submitted their application earliest amongst the group members (This is not always the group leader).
Continuing, Graduate, Law and Readmitted Students
•	Roommate groups must be created no later than two days before self-selection.
•	If you are in a special group (Athletics, Kaleidoscope, University Honors Program, etc.), you should only form groups with those in your program.
•	The group member with the earliest time will have the ability to select the housing for all students in their group.
Title
SOAR Summer-Campus Experience Roommate Groups
Description
This selection is only for new first-time freshmen and transfer students who have completed the housing application for the Fall semester and registered for an on-campus SOAR experience. Students can only establish roommate groups with other students who have completed the Fall Housing application and registered for the same SOAR session (SOAR session 1, SOAR session 2, etc.).
Title
Summer Housing Roommate Groups
Description
This selection is for students who have completed the Summer housing application. As a reminder, students can only establish roommate groups with other students who have completed the Summer housing application. Students requesting to live together must have indicated the same summer session(s). The summer sessions are Summer Session 1, Summer Session 2 and Dual Summer Session 1 and 2.
Title
How to Create, Accept or Decline a Roommate Group
Description
•	On the Housing Portal, click "Roommate Groups" to begin the process of inviting others to your group. Then, click "Accept/Decline Roommate."
•	Click "Create Group" to begin the process of inviting others to your group. Then click "Invite" and search for the people you are inviting. You can use their name or email to invite them. (If they have the same name as another student, you must use the email to find the exact person.) 
•	If you have already been invited to a group, you will see the invitation below. Click "Accept" to join the group or "Decline" if you do not want to join the group.
•	If you have already accepted a group (your status is listed below as "Member") and you wish to leave the group, click "Leave."
•	You can only be in one group at a time, so if you are in a group and want to join a different group or create your own group, you must first leave the group you are in. 
•	When you are done managing your group, click "Submit Group." Invitations and updates will be sent to group members.
•	Please note that students are only considered to be "in" the group once they are listed either as a "Leader" or a "Member." Invited people must accept in order to be considered a member of the group.

How do I find off-campus housing?
Access this off-campus housing listing.
https://offcampushousing.nccu.edu/listing

How do I access mental health and counseling services?
Visit the Counseling Center website. Look for the "Schedule a New Appointment" instructions.
https://www.nccu.edu/dsa/health-wellness/counseling-center
How do I find clubs and organizations on campus?
Visit Eagle Link to find clubs and organizations on campus.
https://nccu.presence.io/
How do I get help with my resume?
Walk into the Career and Professional Development Center on the first floor of the NCCU Student Center to get assistance with your resume or to schedule a time to work on your resume.
https://www.nccu.edu/dsa/student-support/cpdc
How do I apply for jobs or internships in my field?
View more information on campus recruiting.
On-Campus Recruiting
On-Campus Recruiting is a program in the Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC) with guidelines to which students must adhere. These guidelines help maintain positive relationships with employers so that they will continue to return to our campus and recruit students in the future. 
Employers participating in the On-Campus Recruiting program have a particular interest in North Carolina Central University (NCCU) students and use this program to seek out and hire outstanding students. Job opportunities, employer events and interviews through the Career and Professional Development Center are privileges granted to students and alumni by employers who have provided their resources and time to meet, interview and hire candidates at their convenience.
Honoring commitments is a sign of professionalism and integrity. Students who sign up for an interview time slot or events are expected to honor their commitment and show up for their scheduled interviews and events. Unfilled interview and event time spots represent a lost opportunity for other students and a waste of the employer’s time. Late cancellations or not showing up for a scheduled interview time slot or event reflects poorly on the candidate and NCCU.
How to Participate in On-Campus Recruiting
The Career Center uses Handshake to manage the On-Campus Recruiting program. With your Handshake account, you can view a full list of participating employers; upload your resume, cover letter and other requested application materials; and apply for and schedule an interview. Employers choose candidates to interview based on how a candidate matches the needs of the employer; they then invite selected candidates to interview. To get started, call Chaz Glenn, the employer relations coordinator, at 919-530-7597.
No-Show and Cancellation Policy
You are expected to attend all scheduled campus interviews.
By missing or canceling an interview without sufficient notification, you have used a time slot that could have been filled by another student and created a negative impression of yourself, as well as NCCU students. 
You are expected to be on time for a campus interview.  
Please arrive at the Career and Professional Development Center 10–15 minutes prior to your scheduled interview time. Being late reflects badly on you as a candidate and can be disruptive to other scheduled appointment times. Companies have provided their staff with financial resources and time to meet candidates at their convenience. Note: If a candidate is late for an interview, it will be at the discretion of the employer as to whether the interview will still be conducted. 
Interview Cancellation Policy 
If you must cancel an interview scheduled through Handshake, please notify Chaz Glenn, the employer relations coordinator, at 919-530-7597 or via email at cglenn19@nccu.edu. Notification of cancellation must be done at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled interview (Tuesday–Friday) and 72 hours before a Monday interview. 
Missed Interview 
Students who are a "no show" or "late cancel" may forfeit their interviewing privileges for the remainder of the academic year. Students who miss a scheduled interview or who fail to cancel their interview will have their Handshake privileges suspended. Before on-campus recruiting privileges will be restored, the student will be expected to email a letter of apology and explanation to the recruiter. The letter must be approved by the Career and Professional Development Center prior to sending, with a copy to be kept on file. 
Once you have requested an interview appointment with an employer, you have made the commitment that you are seriously interested in them as a prospective employer. It is your responsibility to research and prepare for the interview. Check with the office staff for assistance.
You are expected to honor all agreements made with recruiters: this is especially true of site visits. When you accept a second interview opportunity with a company, you put into motion a whole series of travel arrangements, scheduling and a host of other details. If you subsequently fail to follow through with the site visit without giving the company enough advance notice of your decision, you will cost them a considerable amount of time and money as well as deny another candidate the opportunity to interview. This could impact the organization’s actions regarding future recruiting activities at North Carolina Central University. 
You are expected to honor all agreements made with recruiters: this is especially true of accepting a job offer. Do not accept a job offer if you intend to continue interviewing. When you accept a job offer, you are agreeing to work for that specific organization. If you receive an offer and are not ready to accept it, you may speak with a counselor to review options and devise a plan to address the situation. The staff is trained and available to handle these matters, so take advantage of their expertise. Accepting a job offer is giving your word to that employer that you will honor your commitment. By going back on your word (or reneging), you affect more than yourself. It portrays you and NCCU in an unprofessional light and is highly unethical and risky. You place yourself in a position of possibly never being able to work for that employer; the employer may not want to recruit at NCCU in the future because of your behavior, and word may spread amongst other recruiters in your field and could potentially affect your future employment opportunities. 
You are expected to cease interviewing upon your acceptance of a job offer. 
Continuing to look for employment after accepting an offer — either verbally or in writing — is highly unethical and potentially risky for your career. 
Internship Offer	Offer Cannot Expire Before
July 27, 2025–October 20, 2025	November 4, 2025
After October 20, 2025	Two weeks after the formal offer
Upon completion of a summer 2025 internship with organization (return for 2026 internship)	November 17, 2025, or two weeks from the formal offer, whichever is later
December 29, 2025-March 2, 2026	March 30, 2026, or two weeks from the formal offer, whichever is later
After March 2, 2026	Two weeks after the formal offer
Full-Time Offer	Offer Cannot Expire Before
Upon completion of a summer 2025 internship with the organization (2026 full-time job offer)	November 3, 2025, or two weeks from the formal offer, whichever is later
Before October 20, 2025 (summer/fall 2025 interviews, no summer internship with organization making the offer)	November 16, 2025, or two weeks from the formal offer, whichever is later
After October 20, 2025	Two weeks from the formal offer
December 29, 2025–March 2, 2026	March 29, 2026, or two weeks from the formal offer, whichever is later
After March 2, 2026	Two weeks after the formal offer
 
Our Commitment to Your Success
The Career and Professional Development Center provides a comprehensive range of services, programs and materials focused on career exploration, decision making, skill development and experiential learning to empower students. We are committed to assisting organizations in meeting their hiring needs for the mutual benefit of NCCU students and the organizations which employ them. Please note that the Career and Professional Development Center adheres to the National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE) Principles for Ethical Professional Practice. Employers and students must adhere to these guidelines.

How do I find the NCCU Campus Pantry?
The NCCU Campus Pantry is a free resource for all members of NCCU (students, faculty and staff). The mission of the Campus Pantry is to reduce the burden of food insecurity for the NCCU campus community.

How do I request an accommodation or submit an IEP/504 plan?
Academic, housing, pregnancy-related, public, and transportation accommodations are available. Testing and note-taking services or temporary injury adjustments are also available. Learn more on the LCI-Student Accessibility Center (SAC) page.
How do I obtain a parking permit?
Parking permits are available to order through myEOL's Banner system. Permits are only available at certain times of the year, and Transportation Services will email NCCU students with more information. The Transportation and Parking Office is located on the first floor of Eagle Landing Residence Hall (408 Brant Street).
How do I submit my student immunizations?
Look for emails from the Student Health Center with more instructions or view this page with immunization information.
How do I submit my high school transcript?
You may submit your transcript electronically via CFNC for NC schools, via mail, or via other electronic methods. We strongly encourage documents to be sent electronically.
SpanTran has created a custom application to help NCCU international students get their transcripts evaluated at a discounted rate. Visit the SpanTran application.
The mailing address is:
Office of Undergraduate Admissions
P.O. Box 19717
Durham, NC 27707



