NCCU Resources
Welcome to the North Carolina Central University (NCCU) Campus Resource Page, your go-to hub for comprehensive support throughout your university journey. Discover our campus food pantries for nutritious meal options, access health and well-being resources for physical and mental care, and explore student support for everything from financial advice to career guidance.
Resources
Our academic support services, including tutoring and study groups, are designed to help you achieve your full potential. At NCCU, we’re committed to nurturing your success both academically and personally. Dive in and make the most of your college experience!
Campus Pantry
The mission of the NCCU Campus Pantry (CP) is to reduce the burden of food insecurity for the NCCU campus community. The Department of Nutrition Science was instrumental in the inception and design of the pantry and continues to manage and direct the busiest food assistance program on campus. Students in the nutrition program have an opportunity to work as volunteers, develop educational programs and promotional events, and conduct research through the CP.
NCCU Campus Pantry
Transitions
Transitions is a support program at our campus for students facing homelessness or food insecurity, providing resources like the free Transitions Pantry, housing aid, and life skills seminars. Contact Star Dorsett for assistance or donations at 919-530-7492 or star.dorsett@nccu.edu.
Transition Pantry
Initiatives and Student Support
•	Transitions
•	Community Central
•	CORE
Transitions
Transitions is a campus-based support program for students facing homelessness and food insecurity. The initiative is aimed at providing assistance and resources to support the needs of this student population. The program aims to: 
•	Provide food through the Transitions Pantry at no cost to students who are facing food insecurity
•	Assist students with housing instability by identifying campus and community resources 
•	Offer life skills seminars focused on financial literacy, leadership development, personal growth and health and wellness  
Questions about receiving or donating food can be directed to the Advocacy Coordinator at 919-530-7492 or to star.dorsett@nccu.edu.
Community Central
The Community Central Initiative, as part of the Division of Student Affairs, aims at improving the relationship between NCCU and our surrounding neighbors while also educating students on the importance of community engagement. Community Central activities include the following: 
•	Twice a semester, students, the university police and staff members canvass the community, disseminating information related to NC Central. 
•	Assisting students with facilitating community-based volunteer programs. 
•	Educating students on how to become engaged with the processes and policies that impact the university and the surrounding community. 
Questions regarding this program can be directed to communitycentral@nccu.edu. 
CORE
The Co-Curricular Restorative Education Program, or CORE, is a series of educational seminars aimed at providing life and leadership skills to participants.  The program is primarily used to supplement sanctions levied by the Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards but is also available to students who would benefit from the information offered during the seminars.   
C.O.R.E. seminars include:  
•	Ethical Decision Making 
•	Post-collegiate Planning 
•	Conflict Resolution 
•	Internship Exploration 
•	Resume and Interview Preparation 
•	Character Development 
•	Financial Literacy  
•	Sexual Misconduct / Title IX Awareness / Bystander Intervention 
•	MAC Men Know Learning Session 
•	We WIN! Series 
•	Safe Zone Training 
•	Alcohol and Other Drug Abuse 


Basic Needs Hub
Basic Needs Hub
•	Essential Needs Around Campus
Welcome to NCCU’s Basic Needs Hub, your central resource highlighting locations offering free food, personal care items, light meal options, grocery items, and household supplies for students across campus. This page simplifies access by identifying available resources and their locations, ensuring you can find the support you need to succeed. The list is separated according to your essential needs, with detailed descriptions and updates provided for each resource to ensure you know what’s available and how to access it. Whether you're seeking a quick meal, toiletries, or basic household supplies, we’re here to help you thrive at NCCU.
 
Essential Needs Around Campus
Info Accordions
Grocery Items
Campus Pantry, Miller Morgan 204C (10 a.m.- 4 p.m. M-F)
This location offers general grocery items like peanut butter, vegetables (both canned and fresh), rice, eggs, and bread. Availability may vary.

Light Meals/Snacks
These locations offer quick snacks and microwavable meals.
•	Campus Pantry, Miller Morgan 204C (10 a.m. -4 p.m. M-F)
•	Transitions Pantry: Dean of Students Office, Student Services Building 208
•	Transitions Satellite Pantry: Women’s Center, Student Center 2203
•	Transitions Satellite Pantry: University College, First and/or Second Floor Mobile Desk
•	Transitions Satellite Pantry: L.T. Walker Complex, First Floor (Pop-up Hours, Posted on IG)
•	Nursing School Pantry: School of Nursing, 1311 (Designated for Nursing Students)

Personal Care Essentials
These locations offer the following items, subject to availability. (Toothbrush and toothpaste, shampoo and conditioner, soap or body wash, deodorant, moisturizer, feminine hygiene products.
•	Transitions Pantry: Dean of Students Office, Student Services Building 208
•	Transitions Satellite Pantry: Women’s Center, Student Center 2203

Household Items
These locations offer the following items, subject to availability. (Toothbrush and toothpaste, shampoo and conditioner, soap or body wash, deodorant, moisturizer, feminine hygiene products.
•	Transitions Pantry: Dean of Students Office, Student Services Building 208
•	Transitions Satellite Pantry: Women’s Center, Student Center 2203

School Supplies
These locations offer the following items, subject to availability. (Pens and pencils, paper, rulers, notebooks, etc)
Transitions Pantry: Dean of Students Office, Student Services 208


Academic Support
Academic Advising
•	For students with less than 53 credits, academic advising is a major source of help with scheduling, academic advice and navigating the university. 
•	University College Academic Advising
•	Welcome
•	The goal of University Advising is to collaborate with students, parents and the community to promote autonomy, independence and the opportunity to participate in and improve the academic advising process. We make an effort to interact with students, clarify academic and professional objectives, and provide guidance for thoughtful and goal-oriented academic advancement. University advising is available whether you need a partner to help you with your academic success plan, are contemplating jobs in the health sciences or are just researching majors.
•	Meet the Team
Meet the NCCU Academic Advisory Team
Utilize our expertise and resources as we assist you in deciding on your road to success. We are prepared to assist.
 
Anderson, Ashley
Senior Academic Advisor
University College
 Alexander-Dunn Building, Room 204
 aande135@NCCU.EDU
 919-530-7038

 
Bennett, Elizabeth
Academic Advisor
University College
 Alexander-Dunn Building, Room 213
 ebenne15@nccu.edu
 919-530-7035

 
Felder, Shanihya A
Administrative Support Associate
University College
 Alexander-Dunn Building, Room 206
 sfelder8@NCCU.EDU
 919-530-6129

 
Green, Shanice
Associate Director of Academic Engagement & 2nd-Year Experience
University College
 Alexander-Dunn Building, Room 222
 sgreen43@NCCU.EDU
 919-530-5405

 
Hartsfield, Blake
Academic Advisor
University College
 Alexander-Dunn Building - Room 215
 bhartsf2@nccu.edu
 919-530-6912

 
Headen, Brittany
Academic Advisor
University College
 Alexander-Dunn Building - Room 215
 bheaden5@nccu.edu
 919-530-7036

 
Hicks, Brittany
Academic Advisor
Academic Advising
 Alexander-Dunn Building, Room 215
 bhicks23@nccu.edu
 919-530-5535

 
Horne, RaKelle
Academic Advisor
University College
 Alexander Dunn Room 226
 rhorne1@nccu.edu
 919-530-5534

 
Jernigan, Cameron
Academic Advisor
University College
 Alexander-Dunn Building, Room 208
 cjernig2@NCCU.EDU
 919-530-6975

 
Lewis, Quntashea
Academic Advisor
University College
 Alexander-Dunn Building, Room 224
 qlewis9@nccu.edu
 919-530-6346

 
Matthews, Dawn Y
Associate Dean of Academic Planning & Student Success
University College
 Alexander-Dunn Building, Room 206
 dmatth23@NCCU.EDU
 919-530-6658

 
Perry, Jereme
Director of University College Academic Advising
University College
 Alexander-Dunn Building, Room 207
 jperry84@NCCU.EDU
 919-530-6915
 
Spencer, Tanisha
Academic Advisor
University College
 Alexander-Dunn Building, Room 216
 tspenc42@nccu.edu
 919-530-6974

 
Williams, Korey
Academic Advisor
Academic Advising
 Alexander-Dunn Building, Room 216
 kwill187@nccu.edu
 919-530-7587

 
Williams, Neil
Academic Advisor
University College
 Alexander-Dunn Building - Room 208
 nwilli65@nccu.edu
 919-530-6971

Page:

•	Register Today
Register Today: University College Advising Tips
Description
The first step to becoming an Eagle is ensuring that you complete required tasks, like New Student Orientation, to start your semester off strong.
 
Title
Fall, Spring and Summer Registration
Description
To register for courses, students will need to meet with an academic advisor. Students will receive an email to register for courses for Fall, Spring or Summer. To schedule an appointment, visit Navigate or check your email from your academic advisor.
Course Registration Forms
View commonly used forms.
Info Accordions
Advising Contract and Syllabus
Advising Worksheet
How to Register
Find additional information that can help you navigate Banner 9.
Info Accordions
How to Look up Courses
How to Self-Register
Title
Readmission
Description
 
Ready to re-start your education at North Carolina Central University? To do so, simply apply for undergraduate readmission using the process outlined below.
•	Complete an online Readmission Application Form. Create a readmission application portal account and proceed to apply.
•	Submit a non-refundable application fee of $50 along with your readmission application.
•	Submit an official transcript from each institution you have attended since leaving NCCU.
•	To learn more about residency and complete a residency determination, go to www.NCresidency.org.
Learn More about Readmission
Title
Foreign Language Placement Exams
Description
 
Students are required to take a placement examination in the desired foreign language. Students who place into Level I must complete Level I and II courses.  A student who places beyond Level II will have met the language requirement for the University and will not have to complete further coursework.
Dashboard Login
Course Questions?
Review general information about courses.
How Do I Add or Drop Courses?
•	How to add: You may add a class during the first two weeks of fall and spring classes without the approval of your instructor. Please contact your academic advisor to add the class. Students are permitted to add up to 18 credit hours. Contact your academic advisor for approval. 
•	How to drop: You may drop a class during the first two weeks of fall and spring classes without the approval of your instructor. Please contact your academic advisor to drop a class. All full-time students must be registered in at least 12 credit hours to remain a full-time student. 

•	
Can I Do a Course Withdrawal?
After the first two weeks of the semester, you can submit a course withdrawal form to be removed from the course. Unlike the add/drop period, this course will remain on your transcript with a final grade of "WC." This will not impact your GPA but will add to your attempted credit hours. Speak to your advisor about withdrawing a course, as this may impact your degree progression.
After speaking to your academic advisor, access the withdrawal form.

Can I Do an Administrative Withdrawal?
Please contact your advisor for more information and review the university catalog.
Additional Resources
Check out the general questions below.
Info Accordions
How Do I Receive Credit at NCCU for College-Level Courses in High School or at Another University or College?
Students must submit their official college transcripts to North Carolina Central University. College courses with a "C" or better will be evaluated by Transfer Services.
Do I Have to Take Health and Fitness Courses?
Health and Fitness courses are required at NCCU and fall under the General Education Course requirements.
I Took Foreign Language Classes in High School. Do I Have to Take Them at NCCU?
NCCU students who do not have an associate's degree are required to complete a foreign language placement test. Students can place out of their elected foreign language. Students with an associate's degree, please speak to your academic advisor regarding other foreign language options. 
How Can I Meet with My Academic Advisor?
Please visit Navigate to schedule an academic advising appointment with your assigned academic advisor.
How Will I Receive My Alternate PIN?
Students will receive their alternate PIN from their academic advisor after completing one semester at NCCU and receiving a cumulative GPA of 2.0 or higher.
Does NCCU Offer Distance Education?
NCCU Online offers a flexible, convenient way to earn or complete your degree and advance your career. Select a program using the link below to learn more about the 100% online learning experience, tuition costs and admission requirements.
Visit NCCU Online
What General Education Courses Does NCCU Offer?
View the GEC course attachment.
What Is My Classification?
•	Under 30 credit hours = Freshman
•	30–59 credit hours = Sophomore
•	60–89 credit hours = Junior
•	0+ = Senior
Campus Resource Guide

•	Schedule Appointment
•	Find Your Major
•	Student Populations
•	
Academic Success Coaching
•	Our academic success coaching service provides academic assistance for students experiencing academic challenges.
Tutoring and Supplemental Instruction
•	Tutoring and Supplemental Instruction at NCCU provides student-led academic enrichment and support for students enrolled in courses at NCCU.
Student-Athlete Academic Support
•	With dedicated attention, we are the academic heartbeat for athletes! 
Health and Well-being
•	Campus Recreation and Fitness Center
•	Counseling Center
•	Student Development and Support
•	Student Health Center
•	Women’s Center
Student Support
NCCU is devoted to the academic success of every Eagle, offering a comprehensive range of services. This includes academic and housing accommodations, specialized support for first-generation students, and various leadership development opportunities. We provide testing and note-taking services, engaging student enrichment workshops, and adjustments for temporary injuries. Accessibility is a priority, with assistive technology, public accommodation, and a robust accessibility policy for course design. We also address specific needs through transportation and pregnancy-related accommodations. Our commitment extends to incoming freshmen and transfer students with an easy accommodation registration process, ensuring a supportive and inclusive educational environment for all.
 

