Office of Alumni Relations
The Office of Alumni Relations advances the academic excellence, interests and traditions of North Carolina Central University (NCCU) by inspiring Eagle engagement through relevant programming, enhanced connections and effective communications.

We invite you to take full advantage of the many programs and activities the Office of Alumni Relations and the NCCU Alumni Association offer to connect, engage and serve your university.


Building a Solid Connection
Students who have a desire to enroll in a North Carolina Community College to earn an associate in arts (A.A.) or associate in science (A.S.) degree can apply at different stages of their academic pursuit.

All of the following can apply:

Students who have graduated from high school
Students in their senior year (spring semester)
Students in their first year at a participating community college
Students at a participating community college with less than 30 credits
Students interested in earning a bachelor's degree at NCCU
Who Is Eligible to Apply
The Eagle Connect Program is more than a guaranteed admission opportunity for students who have earned an associate in arts (A.A.) or associate in science (A.S.) degree at a participating North Carolina Community College. This program offers a pre-structured and transparent student engagement pathway to earning a bachelor’s degree at NCCU while minimizing uncertainty and promoting timely degree completion. 

Explore the Benefits
Eagle Connect aims at fostering early engagement and academic integration for students currently enrolled at community colleges. This program offers prospective transfer students a valuable opportunity for the following. 

Attending athletic events
Attending Lyceum offerings
Attending the fall and spring career fairs
Accessing to the James E. Shepard Library
Attending workshops/seminars
Cultivating a strong sense of connection and belonging 
Career Explorations
Eagle Connect participants have the options to select from approximately 100 majors and concentrations that equip you for exhilarating career paths. Explore your opportunities below.


College of Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities
The College of Arts, Social Sciences, and Humanities (CASH) consists of the following departments and programs:

Aerospace Studies
Army ROTC (Military Science)
Art and Design
Behavioral and Social Sciences
Criminal Justice
History
Language and Literature
Mass Communication
Music
Political Science
Psychology
Social Work
Theatre and Dance
Learn more about CASH on our eCatalog.

 

College of Health and Science
The College of Health and Sciences (CHAS) offers majors in the sciences and health and prepares students to assume careers in the fastest growing professions both locally and globally.

The science majors include biology and biomedical sciences, math and physics, environment, earth and geospatial science, chemistry and pharmaceutical science.

The current majors in the health sciences are: communications science and disorders, kinesiology and recreation administration, nutrition, public health education and nursing.

The Ph.D. program in integrated biosciences is the only program in the country with an emphasis on health disparities research for most at-risk populations.

Learn more about CHAS on our Ecatalog.
School of Business

School of Education
Let’s SOAR: Secure Your Seat
As participants in the Eagle Connect Program, students are required to meet and maintain eligibility in the program to have a seat for guaranteed admission to NCCU. Eagle Connect students will be expected to:

Maintain 2.0 or higher while enrolled at a community college
Earn an A.A. or A.S. degree
Utilize the Transfer Guide aligned with NCCU’s majors
Meet all NCCU transfer admission deadlines
Enroll in a major within three years of joining the Eagle Connect Program
Resources to Navigate Your Success
 NCCU’s transfer guides and planner initiatives are critical tools for students to use to help them select the right classes while enrolling at the community college. Eagle Connect participants are required to follow the community college major transfer guide and the Degree Works Planner to ensure their matriculation to graduation.


Transfer Guide
The Transfer Guide displays the courses that must be taken at the community college to complete the require course offering for the major. The guide serves as a roadmap to completing your bachelor’s degree at NCCU.

Comprehensive Articulation Agreements | myEOL | NCCU:

Visiting Academic Programs - North Carolina Central University - Modern Campus Catalog™
Locating their major
Next to the title on the page, click the paper icon

Course of Study Planner
Eagle Connect participants will have access to the NCCU’s Course of Study Planner upon transition to NCCU to simplify what is needed to support their pursuit to major completion. Students will be able to access the Course of Study Planner by:

Visiting Academic Programs - North Carolina Central University - Modern Campus Catalog™
Locating their major
Next to the title on the page, click the paper icon
Most Frequently Asked Questions

When should I submit the Eagle Connect form?
The Eagle Connect form should be submitted when a student is in their senior year of high school and planning to enroll at a participating community college or at the time of enrollment at a community college with less than 30 credits in a degree program.

Do I have to complete a transfer application at the end of the Eagle Connect program?
Yes, the student must complete the NCCU application to ensure all proper enrollment information is collected and documented.

Can I change my major once I enroll at NCCU?
We recommend that you consult with your advisor to ensure the credits you've earned will match the new discipline area.


Does guaranteed admission mean guaranteed financial aid or a scholarship?
No, students must submit their FAFSA form each academic year for financial support. Students must also apply for scholarships each year based on the requirements.

Who can I contact if I have any questions?
Please contact the Office of Transfer Services at transfer@nccu.edu or 919-530-5593.